GEN 1:1 In the beginning God made the heaven and the earth.
GEN 1:2 But the earth was unseen and unready; and darkness was upon the abyss. And spirit of God bore upon the water.
GEN 1:3 And God said, Let there be light! And there was light.
GEN 1:4 And God beheld the light, that it was good. And God parted between the light and between the darkness.
GEN 1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, day one.
GEN 1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the water, and let it be for parting between water and water!
GEN 1:7 And God made the firmament. And God parted between the water which was underneath the firmament, and between the water above the firmament.
GEN 1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And God beheld that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.
GEN 1:9 And God said, Let the water underneath the heaven come together into one gathering, and let the dry land appear! And it was so. And the water underneath the heaven gathered together into its gatherings, and the dry land appeared.
GEN 1:10 And God called the dry land Earth. And the collections of the waters he called Seas. And God beheld that it was good.
GEN 1:11 And God said, Let the earth grow pasturage of grass sowing seed according to type, and according to likeness, and the fruitful tree producing fruit of which the seed of it is in it, according to type, upon the earth! And it was so.
GEN 1:12 And the earth brought forth pasturage of grass sowing seed according to type, and according to likeness; and the fruitful tree producing fruit, of which the seed of it is in it, according to type, upon the earth. And God beheld that it was good.
GEN 1:13 And there was evening and there was morning, the third day.
GEN 1:14 And God said, Let there be luminaries in the firmament of the heaven for giving light upon the earth, to part between the day and between the night! And let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and for years!
GEN 1:15 And let them be for giving light in the firmament of the heaven, so as to shine upon the earth! And it was so.
GEN 1:16 And God made the two great luminaries; the great luminary for beginnings of the day, and the lesser luminary for beginnings of the night, and the stars.
GEN 1:17 And God put them in the firmament of the heaven, so as to shine upon the earth,
GEN 1:18 and to begin the day and the night, and to part between the light and between the darkness. And God beheld that it was good.
GEN 1:19 And there was evening and there was morning, the fourth day.
GEN 1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth reptiles of living souls, and flying winged creatures upon the earth below the firmament of the heaven! And it was so.
GEN 1:21 And God made the great sea monsters, and every soul of living creatures of reptiles which the waters brought forth according to their types, and every feathered winged creature according to type. And God beheld that it was good.
GEN 1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Grow and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the winged creatures be multiplied upon the earth!
GEN 1:23 And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day.
GEN 1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth a living soul according to type - four-footed, and reptiles, and wild beasts of the earth according to type! And it was so.
GEN 1:25 And God made the wild beasts of the earth according to type, and the cattle according to their type, and all the reptiles of the earth according to type. And God beheld that it was good.
GEN 1:26 And God said, Let us make man according to our image, and according to likeness! And let them control the fishes of the sea, and the winged creatures of the heaven, and the cattle, and all the earth, and all the reptiles crawling upon the earth!
GEN 1:27 And God made man. According to the image of God he made him. Male and female he made them.
GEN 1:28 And God blessed them, saying, Grow and multiply, and fill the earth, and dominate it! And control the fishes of the sea, and the winged creatures of the heaven, and all the cattle, and all of the earth, and all of the reptiles crawling upon the earth!
GEN 1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given to you every grass fit for sowing a sowing of seed which is upon the earth, and every tree which has in itself a fruit seed fit for sowing; to you it will be for food,
GEN 1:30 and to all the wild beasts of the earth, and to all the winged creatures of the heaven, and to every reptile crawling upon the earth, which has in itself soul of life, even every green grass for food. And it was so.
GEN 1:31 And God beheld all as much as he made. And behold, it was exceedingly good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.
GEN 2:1 And the heaven and the earth were completed, and all the cosmos of them.
GEN 2:2 And God completed in the sixth day his works which he did. And he rested on the seventh day from all of his works which he did.
GEN 2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; for in it he rested from all of his works - which God began to do.
GEN 2:4 This is the book of the origin of heaven and earth, when it became, in the day God made the heaven and the earth,
GEN 2:5 and every green field before it existed upon the earth, and all grass of the field before its rising. For not did the LORD God rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to work it.
GEN 2:6 But a spring ascended from out of the earth, and it watered all the face of the earth.
GEN 2:7 And God shaped man, taking dust from the earth, and breathed into his face breath of life; and man became a living soul.
GEN 2:8 And God planted paradise in Eden according to the east; and put there the man whom he shaped.
GEN 2:9 And God caused to rise up yet from out of the earth every beautiful tree to the sight, and good for food; and the tree of life in the midst of the paradise, and the tree to perceive knowing good and evil.
GEN 2:10 And a river goes forth from out of Eden to water the paradise; from there it separates into four sources.
GEN 2:11 The name to the one is Pison. This is the one encircling all the land of Havilah, of which the gold is there.
GEN 2:12 And the gold of that land is good. And there is the carbuncle and the leek colored stone.
GEN 2:13 And the name to the second river is Gihon; this is the one encircling all the land of Ethiopia.
GEN 2:14 And the third river is the Tigris. This is the one going forth over against the Assyrians. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
GEN 2:15 And the LORD God took the man whom he shaped, and put him in the paradise to work it and to guard.
GEN 2:16 And the LORD God gave charge to Adam, saying, From all of a tree of the one in the paradise you shall eat food,
GEN 2:17 but from the tree of the knowing good and evil, you shall not eat from it; but in whatever day you should eat from it, to death you shall die.
GEN 2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good for the man to be alone; let us make to him a helper according to him!
GEN 2:19 And God shaped yet from out of the earth all the wild beasts of the field, and all the winged creatures of the heaven. And he led them to Adam, to behold what he would call them. And all what ever Adam called it - the living soul, this was the name to it.
GEN 2:20 And Adam called names to all the cattle, and to all the winged creatures of the heaven, and to all the wild beasts of the field; but to Adam there was not found a helper likened to him.
GEN 2:21 And the LORD God put a change of state over Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs, and supplied flesh against it.
GEN 2:22 And the LORD God built the rib, which he took from Adam, into a woman, and led her to Adam.
GEN 2:23 And Adam said, This now is bone from out of my bones, and flesh from out of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, for from out of the man she was taken.
GEN 2:24 Because of this a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and the two shall be for one flesh.
GEN 2:25 And the two were naked, both Adam and his wife, and were not ashamed.
GEN 3:1 But the serpent was most skilled of all of the wild beasts upon the earth whom the LORD God made. And the serpent said to the woman, For why said God, No way should you eat from all of a tree of the paradise?
GEN 3:2 And the woman said, From fruit of the tree of the paradise we shall eat;
GEN 3:3 but from the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the paradise, God said, Eat not from it, nor in any way touch it, that you should not die!
GEN 3:4 And the serpent said to the woman, Not to death will you die.
GEN 3:5 For God knows that in which ever day you should eat of it, your eyes will be opened wide, and you will be as gods, knowing good and evil.
GEN 3:6 And the woman beheld that the tree is good for food, and that it is pleasing to the eyes to behold, and is beautiful for contemplating. And having taken of the fruit of it, she ate, and she gave also to her husband with her, and they ate.
GEN 3:7 And the eyes of the two were opened wide, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed leaves of a fig-tree, and made to themselves loincloths.
GEN 3:8 And they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the paradise at dusk. And both Adam and his wife hid from the face of the LORD God in the midst of the tree of the paradise.
GEN 3:9 And God called Adam, and said to him, Adam, Where are you?
GEN 3:10 And he said to him, I heard your sound while walking in the paradise, and I feared, for I am naked, and I hid.
GEN 3:11 And God said to him, Who announced to you that you are naked, unless from the tree of which I gave charge to you, saying, This alone you are not to eat from it - you ate.
GEN 3:12 And Adam said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave to me from the tree, and I ate.
GEN 3:13 And the LORD God said to the woman, What is this you did? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate.
GEN 3:14 And the LORD God said to the serpent, Because you did this, accursed are you from all of the cattle, and from all of the wild beasts upon the earth. Upon your breast and belly you shall go, and earth you shall eat all the days of your life.
GEN 3:15 And I will put hatred between you and between the woman; and between your seed and between her seed. He will give heed to your head, and you will give heed to his heel.
GEN 3:16 And to the woman he said, In multiplying I will multiply your distresses, and your moanings. In distresses you will bear children, and to your husband your submission, and he will dominate you.
GEN 3:17 And to Adam he said, Because you hearkened to the voice of your wife, and ate from the tree of which I gave charge to you, saying, This alone you are not to eat from it - and you ate; accursed is the land among your works; in distresses you will eat it all the days of your life.
GEN 3:18 Thorn-bushes and thistles will rise to you, and you will eat the grass of the field.
GEN 3:19 By sweat of your face you will eat your bread, until the returning you into the earth from out of which you were taken. For earth you are and unto earth you will go.
GEN 3:20 And Adam called the name of his wife, Zoe, for she was mother of all the living.
GEN 3:21 And the LORD God made to Adam and to his wife garments of skins, and he clothed them.
GEN 3:22 And God said, Behold, Adam has become as one of us, to know good and evil. And now, lest at any time he might stretch out the hand, and should take from the tree of life, and should eat, and will live into the eon -
GEN 3:23 that the LORD God ejected him from out of the paradise of the delicacy, to work the earth from out of which he was taken.
GEN 3:24 And he cast out Adam, and settled him before the paradise of the delicacy; and he ordered the cherubim, and the flaming turning broadsword, to guard the way of the tree of life.
GEN 4:1 And Adam knew Eve his wife. And conceiving, she bore Cain, and said, I acquired a man through God.
GEN 4:2 And she added to bear his brother Abel. And Abel became a shepherd of sheep, but Cain was working the land.
GEN 4:3 And it came to pass after some days, Cain brought from the fruits of the land a sacrifice offering to the LORD.
GEN 4:4 And Abel brought also himself from the first-born of his sheep, and from his fatlings. And God looked upon Abel and upon his gifts.
GEN 4:5 But upon Cain and upon his sacrifices he did not take heed. And Cain fretted exceedingly, and became downcast in the face.
GEN 4:6 And the LORD God said to Cain, Why are you dejected, and why is your face downcast?
GEN 4:7 If not rightly you brought, but not rightly divided, you sinned? Be still, to you shall be his submission, and you will control him!
GEN 4:8 And Cain said to Abel his brother, Let us go into the plain. And it came to pass in their being in the plain, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and killed him.
GEN 4:9 And the LORD God said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he said, I do not know. I am not the keeper of my brother.
GEN 4:10 And the LORD said, What have you done? The voice of the blood of your brother yells to me from out of the ground.
GEN 4:11 And now, accursed are you from the earth which gaped wide her mouth to receive the blood of your brother from out of your hand.
GEN 4:12 When you work the ground, and it adds not to give her strength to you, then in moaning and trembling you will be upon the earth.
GEN 4:13 And Cain said to the LORD, My fault is too great to forgive me.
GEN 4:14 If you cast me today from the face of the earth, and from your face, I will hide, and I will be moaning and trembling upon the earth; and it will be everyone finding me will kill me.
GEN 4:15 And the LORD God said to him, Not so, everyone killing Cain will be disabled by punishing seven times. And the LORD God put a sign to Cain for everyone finding him to not do away with him.
GEN 4:16 And Cain went forth from the face of God and lived in the land of Nod over against Eden.
GEN 4:17 And Cain knew his wife. And she, conceiving, bore Enoch. And he was building a city. And he named the city after the name of his son - Enoch.
GEN 4:18 And to Enoch was born Irad; and Irad procreated Mehujael; and Mehujael procreated Mathusala; and Mathusala procreated Lamech.
GEN 4:19 And Lamech took to himself two wives; the name to the one was Adah, and the name to the second was Zillah.
GEN 4:20 And Adah bore Jabel. This one was father of the ones living in tents, grazing cattle.
GEN 4:21 And the name to his brother was Jubal, this one was the one introducing the psaltery and harp.
GEN 4:22 But Zillah also herself bore Tubal-cain. And he was a hammer-smith brazier of brass and of iron. And the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
GEN 4:23 And Lamech said to his own wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice, O wives of Lamech! Give ear to my words! For I killed a man for giving a wound to me, even a young man for giving a stripe to me.
GEN 4:24 For punishment seven times is for Cain, but for Lamech, seventy times seven.
GEN 4:25 And Adam knew Eve his wife. And conceiving, she bore a son, and named his name Seth, saying, For God raised up to me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain killed.
GEN 4:26 And to Seth was born a son. And he named his name Enos; this one hoped to call upon the name of the LORD God.
GEN 5:1 This is the book of the origin of men in which day God made Adam. According to the image of God he made him.
GEN 5:2 Male and female he made them; and he blessed them. And he named his name Adam, in which day he made them.
GEN 5:3 And Adam lived thirty and two hundred years. And he procreated a son according to his shape, and according to his image; and he named his name Seth.
GEN 5:4 And came to pass the days of Adam which he lived after his procreating Seth - seven hundred years. And he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:5 And came to pass all the days of Adam which he lived - thirty and nine hundred years; and he died.
GEN 5:6 And Seth lived five and two hundred years; and he procreated Enos.
GEN 5:7 And Seth lived after his procreating Enos, seven years and seven hundred; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:8 And came to pass all the days of Seth - twelve and nine hundred years; and he died.
GEN 5:9 And Enos lived a hundred ninety years, and he procreated Cainan.
GEN 5:10 And Enos lived after his procreating Cainan, fifteen years and seven hundred; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:11 And came to pass all the days of Enos - five years and nine hundred; and he died.
GEN 5:12 And Cainan lived seventy and a hundred years; and he procreated Mahalaleel.
GEN 5:13 And Cainan lived, after his procreating Mahalaleel, forty and seven hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:14 And came to pass all the days of Cainan - ten years and nine hundred; and he died.
GEN 5:15 And Mahalaleel lived five and sixty and a hundred years; and he procreated Jared.
GEN 5:16 And Mahalaleel lived, after his procreating Jared, thirty and seven hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:17 And came to pass all the days of Mahalaleel - five and ninety and eight hundred years; and he died.
GEN 5:18 And Jared lived two and sixty years and a hundred; and he procreated Enoch.
GEN 5:19 And Jared lived after his procreating Enoch - eight hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:20 And came to pass all the days of Jared - two and sixty and nine hundred years; and he died.
GEN 5:21 And Enoch lived five and sixty and a hundred years; and he procreated Mathusala.
GEN 5:22 And Enoch was well-pleasing to God. And Enoch lived, after his procreating Mathusala, two hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:23 And came to pass all the days of Enoch - five and sixty and three hundred years.
GEN 5:24 And Enoch was well-pleasing to God. And he was not found, for God transposed him.
GEN 5:25 And Mathusala lived seven and eighty and a hundred years, and he procreated Lamech.
GEN 5:26 And Mathusala lived, after his procreating Lamech, two and eighty and seven hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:27 And came to pass all the days of Mathusala which he lived - nine and sixty and nine hundred years; and he died.
GEN 5:28 And Lamech lived eight and eighty and a hundred years; and he procreated a son.
GEN 5:29 And he named his name Noah, saying, This one will rest us from our works, and from the distresses of our hands, and from the earth of which the LORD God cursed.
GEN 5:30 And Lamech lived, after his procreating Noah, five hundred and sixty and five years; and he procreated sons and daughters.
GEN 5:31 And came to pass all the days of Lamech - seven hundred and fifty three years; and he died.
GEN 5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old and he procreated three sons - Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
GEN 6:1 And it came to pass when many men began to become upon the earth, and daughters were born to them,
GEN 6:2 and the sons of God were beholding the daughters of men, that they are good, that they took to themselves wives from all of whom they chose.
GEN 6:3 And the LORD God said, No way should my spirit stay with these men, on account of their being flesh; and their days will be a hundred twenty years.
GEN 6:4 And the giants were upon the earth in those days. And after that, the sons of God continually entered to the daughters of men, and procreated for themselves. Those were the giants from the eon, the renowned men.
GEN 6:5 And the LORD God beholding that the evils of men were multiplying upon the earth, and that all what man considered in his heart was diligently upon the wicked things all the days,
GEN 6:6 that God pondered that he made the man upon the earth - and he considered it.
GEN 6:7 And God said, I will wipe away the man, whom I made, from the face of the earth; from man unto beast, and from reptiles unto the winged creatures of the heaven; for I regreted that I made them.
GEN 6:8 But Noah found favor before the LORD God.
GEN 6:9 And these are the origins of Noah. Noah was a just man, being perfect in his generation - Noah was well-pleasing to God.
GEN 6:10 And Noah procreated three sons - Shem, Ham, Japheth.
GEN 6:11 But the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled of iniquity.
GEN 6:12 And the LORD God beheld the earth, and it was being corrupted; for all flesh corrupted its way upon the earth.
GEN 6:13 And the LORD God said to Noah, A season for every man comes before me; for the earth is filled of iniquity by means of them; and behold, I lay them waste, and the earth.
GEN 6:14 Make then to yourself an ark from out of four-cornered wood! Nested compartments you shall make among the ark, and you shall apply tar to it - from inside and from outside with the tar.
GEN 6:15 And so you shall make the ark - three hundred cubits the length of the ark, and fifty cubits the width, and thirty cubits the height of it.
GEN 6:16 By assembling, you shall make the ark; and by a cubit measure you shall complete it from above; but the door of the ark you shall make from out of the side. You shall make it with ground second stories and third stories.
GEN 6:17 And I, behold, I bring the flood of water upon the earth, to lay waste all flesh in which is a breath of life underneath the heaven; and as much as might be upon the earth shall come to an end.
GEN 6:18 And I will establish my covenant with you; and you shall enter into the ark, you, and your sons, and your wife, and the wives of your sons with you.
GEN 6:19 And from all of the cattle, and from all of the reptiles, and from all of the wild beasts, and from all flesh, two by two from all you shall bring into the ark, that you may maintain them with yourself - male and female they shall be.
GEN 6:20 From all of the fowl according to type, and from all of the cattle according to type, and from all of the reptiles of the ones crawling upon the earth according to their type - two by two from all shall enter to you, to be maintained with you - male and female.
GEN 6:21 But you shall take to yourself from all of the foods which you shall eat, and you shall bring them together to yourself, and it shall be to you and to them to eat.
GEN 6:22 And Noah did all as much as the LORD God gave charge to him - so he did.
GEN 7:1 And the LORD God said to Noah, Enter, you and all your house, into the ark! For I beheld you as just before me among this generation.
GEN 7:2 And of the clean cattle, bring in for yourself seven by seven, male and female! But from the cattle not clean - two by two, male and female.
GEN 7:3 And from the winged creatures of the heaven, of the clean - seven by seven, male and female; and from all of the winged creatures not clean, - two by two, male and female, to maintain seed upon all the earth.
GEN 7:4 For yet seven days I will bring rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights. And I will wipe away every height which I made from the face of all the earth.
GEN 7:5 And Noah did all as much as the LORD God gave charge to him.
GEN 7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old and the flood of the water came upon the earth.
GEN 7:7 And Noah entered, and his sons, and his wife, and the wives of his sons, with him, into the ark, because of the water of the flood.
GEN 7:8 And from the winged creatures of the clean, and from the winged creatures of the ones not clean, and from the cattle of the ones clean, and from the cattle of the ones not clean, and from the wild beasts, and from all of the ones crawling upon the earth,
GEN 7:9 two by two they entered with Noah into the ark, male and female, as God gave charge to him.
GEN 7:10 And it came to pass after the seven days, and the water of the flood came upon the earth.
GEN 7:11 In the six hundredth year in the life of Noah, the second month, seventh and twentieth of the month - in this day, all the springs of the abyss tore, and the torrents of the heaven were opened.
GEN 7:12 And rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
GEN 7:13 In this day entered Noah, Shem, Ham, Japheth, the sons of Noah, and the wife of Noah, and the three wives of his sons with him into the ark.
GEN 7:14 And all the wild beasts according to type, and all the cattle according to type, and every reptile moving upon the earth according to type, and every winged creature according to type,
GEN 7:15 entered with Noah into the ark - two by two, male and female, from all flesh in which there is a breath of life.
GEN 7:16 And the ones entering, male and female, from all flesh, entered as God gave charge to Noah. And the LORD God locked the ark from outside of it.
GEN 7:17 And came to pass the flood forty days and forty nights. And the water multiplied and lifted up the ark, and raised it up high from the earth.
GEN 7:18 And the water prevailed, and multiplied exceedingly upon the earth. And the ark was borne upon the water.
GEN 7:19 But the water prevailed exceedingly exceedingly upon the earth; and it covered all the high mountains which were underneath the heaven.
GEN 7:20 the water was raised fifteen cubits above, and it covered over all the high mountains.
GEN 7:21 And there died all flesh moving upon the earth of the winged creatures, and of the cattle, and from wild beasts, and every reptile moving upon the earth, and every man,
GEN 7:22 and all as many as have breath of life, and everyone who was upon the dry land died.
GEN 7:23 And he wiped away every height which was upon the face of all the earth, from man unto beast, and reptiles, and of the winged creatures of the heaven; and they were wiped away from the earth. And he left behind only Noah, and the ones with him in the ark.
GEN 7:24 And the water was raised up high from the earth a hundred fifty days.
GEN 8:1 And God called to mind Noah, and all of the wild beasts, and all of the cattle, and all of the winged creatures, and all of the crawling things, as much as was with him in the ark. And God brought a wind upon the earth, and the water abated.
GEN 8:2 And the springs of the abyss were revealed, and the torrents of the heaven. And the rain was constrained from the heaven.
GEN 8:3 And the water gave way going from the earth. And the water was lessened after fifty and a hundred days.
GEN 8:4 And the ark settled in the seventh month, the seventh and twentieth of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
GEN 8:5 And the water going forth lessened unto the tenth month. In the first of the month the heads of the mountains appeared.
GEN 8:6 And it came to pass after forty days Noah opened the window of the ark which he made. And he sent forth the crow to see if the water abated.
GEN 8:7 And going forth it returned not until the drying of the water from the earth.
GEN 8:8 And he sent the dove after it to see if the water abated from the earth.
GEN 8:9 And the dove not finding rest to her feet, she returned to him into the ark, for water was upon all the face of the earth. And stretching out the hand, he took her to himself, and brought her into the ark.
GEN 8:10 And waiting still another seven days, again he sent out the dove from out of the ark.
GEN 8:11 And the dove returned to him; and she had a twig of an olive leaf in her mouth. And Noah knew that the water abated from the earth.
GEN 8:12 And waiting still another seven days; again he sent out the dove; and she proceeded not to return to him again.
GEN 8:13 And it came to pass in the one and six hundredth year in the life of Noah, the first month, day one of the month, the water subsided from the earth. And Noah uncovered the roof of the ark which he made. And he beheld that the water subsided from the face of the earth.
GEN 8:14 And in the second month, seventh and twentieth of the month, the earth was dried.
GEN 8:15 And the LORD God spoke to Noah, saying,
GEN 8:16 Come forth from out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons, and the wives of your sons with you!
GEN 8:17 And all flesh from winged creatures unto cattle, and every reptile moving upon the earth, lead out with yourself! And grow and multiply upon the earth!
GEN 8:18 And Noah came forth, and his wife, and his sons, and the wives of his sons with him.
GEN 8:19 And all the wild beasts, and all the cattle, and every winged creature, and every reptile moving upon the earth, according to their type, came forth from out of the ark.
GEN 8:20 And Noah built an altar to the LORD. And he took from all of the clean cattle, and from all of the clean winged creatures, and he offered them for a whole burnt offering upon the altar.
GEN 8:21 And the LORD smelled the scent of pleasant aroma. And the LORD God said, In considering, I will not add yet to curse the earth on account of the works of men, for the thought of man clings upon the wicked things from his youth; I will not add then still to strike all living flesh as I did.
GEN 8:22 All the days of the earth, seed and harvest, chilliness and sweltering heat, summer and spring, day and night, will not be caused to cease.
GEN 9:1 And God blessed Noah, and his sons. And he said to them, Grow and multiply, and fill the earth, and dominate it!
GEN 9:2 And the fear of you, and the trembling will be upon all the wild beasts of the earth, upon all the winged creatures of the heaven, and upon all the things moving upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; under your hands I have given them to you.
GEN 9:3 And every reptile which is living shall be to you for food; as I have given all vegetation of grass to you.
GEN 9:4 Except you shall not eat meat with the blood of life.
GEN 9:5 For even your blood - of the blood of your lives at the hand of all of the wild beasts I shall require it, and from the hand of a man's brother I shall require it.
GEN 9:6 The one shedding blood of a man, in return his blood shall be shed; for in the image of God I made the man.
GEN 9:7 But you grow, and multiply, and fill the earth, and multiply upon the earth!
GEN 9:8 And God said to Noah, and to his sons, saying,
GEN 9:9 Behold, I raise up my covenant to you, and to your seed after you,
GEN 9:10 and every living soul after you, from fowls and from cattle, and to all the wild beasts of the earth, as many as are with you, from all of the ones coming forth from out of the ark.
GEN 9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you; and all flesh will not die any longer from the water of the flood. And there shall not be any longer a flood of water to lay waste all the earth.
GEN 9:12 And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which I execute between me and you, and between every living soul, as much as is with you for eternal generations.
GEN 9:13 I put my bow in the cloud, and it will be for a sign of covenant between me and the earth.
GEN 9:14 And it will be in my collecting together clouds upon the earth, the bow will be seen in the cloud.
GEN 9:15 And I will remember my covenant which is between me and you, and between every living soul among all flesh; and there will not be any longer the water for a flood so as to wipe away all flesh.
GEN 9:16 And my bow will be in the cloud; and I will see it to remember the eternal covenant between me and the earth, and between the living soul which is in all flesh upon the earth.
GEN 9:17 And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant of which I ordained between me and between all flesh which is upon the earth.
GEN 9:18 And these were the sons of Noah coming forth from out of the ark - Shem, Ham, Japheth. And Ham was father of Canaan.
GEN 9:19 These three are the sons of Noah. From these men were disseminated upon all the earth.
GEN 9:20 And Noah the man began to be a farmer of the land. And he planted a vineyard.
GEN 9:21 And he drank from the wine, and became intoxicated, and became naked in his house.
GEN 9:22 And Ham the father of Canaan looked at the nakedness of his father. And going forth, he announced to his two brothers outside.
GEN 9:23 And Shem and Japheth taking the cloak, placed it upon their two backs, and went backwards, and covered up the nakedness of their father. And their face was backwards, and they looked not at the nakedness of their father.
GEN 9:24 And Noah sobered up from the wine, and knew as much as his younger son did to him.
GEN 9:25 And he said, Accursed be Canaan - a child, he will be a domestic servant to his brothers.
GEN 9:26 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem, and Canaan will be his domestic servant.
GEN 9:27 May God widen to Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan become their servant.
GEN 9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred fifty years.
GEN 9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred fifty years; and he died.
GEN 10:1 And these are the generations of the sons of Noah - Shem, Ham, Japheth. And were born to them sons after the flood.
GEN 10:2 The sons of Japheth - Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
GEN 10:3 And the sons of Gomer - Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
GEN 10:4 And the sons of Javan - Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, Dodanim.
GEN 10:5 From out of these were separated islands of the nations in their land, each according to tongue, among their tribes, and among their nations.
GEN 10:6 And the sons of Ham - Cush, and Mizraim, Phut, and Canaan.
GEN 10:7 And the sons of Cush - Seba and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah. And the sons of Raamah - Sheba and Dedan.
GEN 10:8 And Cush procreated Nimrod; this one began to be a giant upon the earth.
GEN 10:9 This one was a giant hunter with hounds before the LORD God. On account of this they shall say, As Nimrod a giant hunter with hounds before the LORD.
GEN 10:10 And came to pass the beginning of his kingdom - Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
GEN 10:11 From out of that land came forth Assyria. And he built Nineveh, also in the midst of Calah -
GEN 10:12 this is the great city.
GEN 10:13 And Mizraim procreated the Ludim, and the Naphtuhim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim,
GEN 10:14 and the Pathrusim and the Casluhim, from where came forth the Philistines, and the Caphtorim.
GEN 10:15 And Canaan procreated Sidon the first-born,
GEN 10:16 and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, and the Hivite, and the Arkite,
GEN 10:17 and the Sinite,
GEN 10:18 and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. And after these the tribes of the Canaanites were scattered.
GEN 10:19 And the boundaries of the Canaanites were from Sidon unto the coming into Gerar and Gaza, unto the coming unto Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboim, unto Lasha.
GEN 10:20 These are the sons of Ham among their tribes, according to their tongues, among their regions, and among their nations.
GEN 10:21 And to Shem was born, even to him, the father of all the sons of Eber, brother of Japheth the greater.
GEN 10:22 Sons of Shem - Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Cainan.
GEN 10:23 And the sons of Aram - Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
GEN 10:24 And Arphaxad procreated Cainan; and Cainan procreated Salah; and Salah procreated Eber.
GEN 10:25 And to Eber were born two sons; the name to the one was Peleg; for in his days the earth was divided into parts; and the name of his brother was Joktan.
GEN 10:26 And Joktan procreated Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
GEN 10:27 and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
GEN 10:28 and Obal, and Abimael, Sheba,
GEN 10:29 and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab - all these were sons of Joktan.
GEN 10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha unto the coming into Sephar, a mountain of the east.
GEN 10:31 These are the sons of Shem among their tribes, according to their tongues, among their regions, and among their nations.
GEN 10:32 These are the tribes of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, according to their nations. From these were scattered islands of the nations upon the earth after the flood.
GEN 11:1 And all the earth was one lip, and one voice to all.
GEN 11:2 And it came to pass in their moving from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there.
GEN 11:3 And a man said to his neighbor, Come let us make bricks, and let us bake them in fire. And the brick became to them as stone, and tar was their mortar.
GEN 11:4 And they said, Come, let us build to ourselves a city and tower of which the top will be unto the heaven. And let us make to ourselves a name before the being scattered upon the face of all the earth.
GEN 11:5 And the LORD went down to look at the city and the tower, which the sons of men built.
GEN 11:6 And the LORD said, Behold, there is one kind and one lip for all, and this they began to do. The things now shall not fail from them, all as much as they might attempt to do.
GEN 11:7 Come, and going down, let us confound their tongue, that they should not each hearken to the voice of the neighbor.
GEN 11:8 And the LORD scattered them from there upon the face of all the earth; and they ceased building the city and the tower.
GEN 11:9 On account of this the name of it was called Confusion, because there the LORD confounded the lips of all the earth; and from there the LORD scattered them upon the face of all the earth.
GEN 11:10 And these are the generations of Shem. And Shem was a hundred years old when he procreated Arphaxad, the second year after the flood.
GEN 11:11 And Shem lived, after his procreating Arphaxad, five and thirty and three-hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:12 And Arphaxad lived a hundred thirty five years, and he procreated Cainan.
GEN 11:13 And Arphaxad lived after his procreating Cainan - three hundred thirty years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died. And Cainan lived a hundred and thirty years, and he procreated Salah. And Cainan lived after his procreating Salah - three hundred thirty years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:14 And Salah lived a hundred thirty years, and he procreated Eber.
GEN 11:15 And Salah lived after his procreating Eber - three hundred thirty years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:16 And Eber lived a hundred thirty four years, and he procreated Peleg.
GEN 11:17 And Eber lived, after his procreating Peleg, three hundred seventy years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:18 And Peleg lived thirty and a hundred years, and he procreated Reu.
GEN 11:19 And Peleg lived, after his procreating Reu, nine and two hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:20 And Reu lived a hundred thirty and two years, and he procreated Serug.
GEN 11:21 And Reu lived, after his procreating Serug, two hundred seven years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:22 And Serug lived a hundred thirty years, and he procreated Nahor.
GEN 11:23 And Serug lived, after his procreating Nahor, two hundred years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:24 And Nahor lived seventy nine years, and he procreated Terah.
GEN 11:25 And Nahor lived, after his procreating Terah, a hundred twenty-nine years; and he procreated sons and daughters; and he died.
GEN 11:26 And Terah lived seventy years and he procreated Abram and Nahor and Haran.
GEN 11:27 And these are the generations of Terah. Terah procreated Abram, and Nahor, and Haran. And Haran procreated Lot.
GEN 11:28 And Haran died in the presence of Terah his father in the land in which he was procreated, in the region of the Chaldeans.
GEN 11:29 And Abram and Nahor took to themselves wives. The name to the wife of Abram was Sarai; and the name to the wife of Nahor was Milcha, daughter of Haran. And he was the father of Milcha, and father of Iscah.
GEN 11:30 And Sarai was sterile, and not able to produce children.
GEN 11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, the son of his son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, the wife of Abram his son. And he led them from out of the region of the Chaldeans, to go into the land of Canaan. And they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.
GEN 11:32 And were the days of Terah in Haran - two hundred five years; and Terah died in Haran.
GEN 12:1 And the LORD said to Abram, Come forth from out of your land, and from out of your kin, and from out of the house of your father, and come into the land which ever I shall show to you.
GEN 12:2 And I will make you into a great nation; and I will bless you, and I will magnify your name; and you will be a blessing.
GEN 12:3 And I will bless the ones blessing you; and the ones cursing you I will curse. And all the tribes of the earth will be blessed by you.
GEN 12:4 And Abram went, just as the LORD spoke to him. And Lot set out with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he came forth from out of Haran.
GEN 12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot the son of his brother, and all their possessions, as much as they acquired, and every soul which they acquired from out of Haran. And they went forth to go into the land of Canaan. And they entered into the land of Canaan.
GEN 12:6 And Abram traveled through the land unto the place of Shechem, unto the high oak. And the Canaanites then dwelt the land.
GEN 12:7 And the LORD appeared to Abram, and said to him, I will give this land to your seed. And Abram built there an altar to the LORD appearing to him.
GEN 12:8 And he left from there into the mountain according to the east of Beth-el. And he set up there his tent in Beth-el according to the west, and Ai according to the east. And he built there an altar to the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD.
GEN 12:9 And Abram departed. And going, he encamped in the wilderness.
GEN 12:10 And there was a famine upon the land. And Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine grew in strength upon the land.
GEN 12:11 And it was when Abram approached to enter into Egypt, Abram said to Sarai his wife, I know that you are a good-looking woman.
GEN 12:12 It will be then as when the Egyptians shall see you, they will say that his wife is this one, and they will kill me, and procure you.
GEN 12:13 Say then that, I am his sister, so that it may become good to me on account of you, and my soul shall live because of you!
GEN 12:14 And it came to pass when Abram entered into Egypt, the Egyptians were looking at his wife, for she was exceedingly beautiful.
GEN 12:15 And the rulers of Pharaoh beheld her, and praised her to Pharaoh. And they brought her into the house to Pharaoh.
GEN 12:16 And they treated Abram well on account of her. And there existed to him sheep, and calves, and donkeys, and menservants, and maidservants, and mules and camels.
GEN 12:17 And the LORD chastised Pharaoh with great and severe chastisements, and his house, on account of Sarai the wife of Abram.
GEN 12:18 And Pharaoh calling Abram, said, What is this you did to me, that you reported not to me that she is your wife?
GEN 12:19 Why did you say that, She is my sister; and I took her to myself as wife? And now, behold, your wife is before you - taking her run from me!
GEN 12:20 And Pharaoh charged the men concerning Abram, to escort him, and his wife, and all, as much as was his, and Lot with him.
GEN 13:1 And Abram ascended from out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all the ones of his, and Lot with him, into the wilderness.
GEN 13:2 And Abram was exceedingly rich in cattle, and silver, and gold.
GEN 13:3 And he went from where he came into the wilderness, unto Beth-el, unto the place where his tent formerly was, between Beth-el and between Ai;
GEN 13:4 unto the place of the altar of which he made there at the beginning. And Abram called upon the name of the LORD there.
GEN 13:5 And Lot, to the one going forth with Abram, was sheep, and oxen, and cattle.
GEN 13:6 And the land did not have space for them to dwell together, for their possessions were many, and they were not able to dwell together.
GEN 13:7 And there was a battle between the herdsmen of the cattle of Abram, and between the herdsmen of the cattle of Lot. And the Canaanites and the Perizzites then inhabited the land.
GEN 13:8 And Abram said to Lot, Do not let there be a battle between me and you, and between your herdsmen and between my herdsmen! For we men are brothers.
GEN 13:9 Behold is not all the earth before you? Part yourself from me! If you go to the left, I will go to the right; but if you go to the right, I will go to the left.
GEN 13:10 And Lot, lifting up his eyes, looked upon all the place round about the Jordan, that all was watered, (before the eradicating by God of Sodom and Gomorrah,) as the paradise of God, and as the land of Egypt unto coming into Zoar.
GEN 13:11 And Lot chose to himself all the place round about the Jordan. And Lot departed from the east. And they were parted, each from his brother.
GEN 13:12 And Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in a city of the places round about; and he pitched a tent in Sodom.
GEN 13:13 But the men in Sodom were wicked and sinners before God - exceedingly.
GEN 13:14 And God said to Abram, after Lot parting from him, Look up with your eyes, and behold from the place of which you are now, to the north and south, and east, and west!
GEN 13:15 For all the land which you see I will give it to you and to your seed unto the eon.
GEN 13:16 And I will make your seed as the sand of the earth. If anyone is able to count out the sand of the earth, then they shall count out your seed.
GEN 13:17 In rising up, travel through the land unto both the length of it and unto the width; for to you I shall give it, and to your seed into the eon.
GEN 13:18 And moving his tent, Abram coming, dwelt around the oak of Mamre, which was in Hebron. And he built there an altar to the LORD.
GEN 14:1 And it came to pass in the kingdom of Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar, and Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations,
GEN 14:2 they made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, and with Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and king Bela - this is Zoar.
GEN 14:3 All these joined in harmony upon the salty ravine, this being the sea of salts.
GEN 14:4 Twelve years they slaved to Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they revolted.
GEN 14:5 And in the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer came, and the kings with him. And they cut in pieces the giants of the ones in Astaroth Karnaim, and strong nations together with them, and the Emim in Shaveh the city,
GEN 14:6 and the Horites in the mountains of Seir, unto the terebinth tree of El-paran, which is in the wilderness.
GEN 14:7 And returning, they came upon the Spring of Judgment, this is Kadesh. And they cut in pieces all the rulers of Amalek, and the Amorites dwelling in Hazezon-tamar.
GEN 14:8 And came forth the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela - this is Zoar. And they deployed themselves for war in the salty valley
GEN 14:9 against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar - the four kings against the five.
GEN 14:10 And the salty valley had wells of tar, and the king of Sodom fled, and the king of Gomorrah, and they fell in there; and the ones being left behind fled into the mountainous area.
GEN 14:11 And they took all the cavalry of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their foods, and went forth.
GEN 14:12 And they took also Lot, the son of the brother of Abram, and his belongings, and moved - for he was dwelling in Sodom.
GEN 14:13 And a certain person of the ones being rescued coming, reported to Abram, to the traveler. And he dwelt at the oak in Mamre of the Amorite, of the brother of Eshcol, and the brother of Aner, who were confederates of Abram.
GEN 14:14 And Abram having heard that Lot the son of his brother has been captured, counted out his own native-born servants - three hundred ten and eight; and he pursued unto Dan.
GEN 14:15 And he fell upon them at night, he and his menservants. And he struck them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is at the left of Damascus.
GEN 14:16 And he returned all the cavalry of Sodom; and he returned Lot the son of his brother, and all his possessions, and the women, and the people.
GEN 14:17 And the king of Sodom came forth to meet him, after his returning from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and the kings with him, into the valley of Shaveh - this was the plain of the king.
GEN 14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth breads and wine; and he was priest of God the highest.
GEN 14:19 And he blessed him. And he said, Abram, a blessing to God in the highest, who created the heaven and the earth.
GEN 14:20 And blessed be God the highest, who delivered up your enemies under your hands to you. And Abram gave to him a tenth from all.
GEN 14:21 And said the king of Sodom to Abram, Give to me the men, but the cavalry you take to yourself!
GEN 14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I will stretch out my hand to the LORD God the highest, who created the heaven and the earth,
GEN 14:23 that not will I take for myself from the string unto the knob of the shoe from all of yours, that you should not have said that, I enriched Abram;
GEN 14:24 except what the young men ate, and the portion of the men going with me, Eshcol, Aner, Mamre - these will take for themselves a portion.
GEN 15:1 And after these words came the word of the LORD to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not fear Abram, I will shield you. Your wage will be exceedingly much.
GEN 15:2 And Abram says, Master, O LORD, what will you give to me, for I am wasting away childless, but the son of Masek, of my native-born maidservant, is this Damascus Eliezer?
GEN 15:3 And Abram said, Since to me you gave not a seed, then my native-born servant will be heir to me.
GEN 15:4 And straightly the voice of the LORD came to him, saying, This one will not be your heir, another will come forth from you - this one will be your heir.
GEN 15:5 And he led him outside, and said to him, Look up indeed into the heaven, and count out the stars if you are able to count them! And he said, Thus will be your seed.
GEN 15:6 And Abram trusted in God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness.
GEN 15:7 And he said to him, I am the God leading you from out of the place of the Chaldeans, so as to give to you this land to inherit.
GEN 15:8 And he said, Master, O LORD, how will I know that I will inherit it?
GEN 15:9 And he said to him, Take to me a heifer being three years old, and a goat being three years old, and a ram being three years old, and a turtle-dove, and a pigeon!
GEN 15:10 And he took to himself all these, and divided them in the middle, and put them facing one another; but the birds he divided not.
GEN 15:11 And birds came down upon the bodies, the ones of their pieces; and Abram sat down with them.
GEN 15:12 And about the descent of the sun a change of state fell upon Abram. And behold, a great dark fear fell upon him.
GEN 15:13 And it was said to Abram, In knowing you will know that your seed will be a sojourner in a land not their own, and they will enslave them, and will afflict them, and humble them four hundred years.
GEN 15:14 But the nation which ever they may be slave to I will judge. And after these things they shall come forth here with many belongings.
GEN 15:15 But you shall go forth to your fathers with peace, being entombed in a good old age.
GEN 15:16 And the fourth generation shall return here, for not yet have the sins of the Amorites been filled up unto the present.
GEN 15:17 And when the sun was in descent, a flame came, and behold, there was an oven smoking; and there were lamps of fire which went through in the midst of these pieces.
GEN 15:18 In that day the LORD ordained a covenant to Abram, saying, To your seed I will give this land, from the river of Egypt unto the river of the great Euphrates -
GEN 15:19 the Kenites, and the Kennizzites, and the Kadmonites,
GEN 15:20 and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Raphaims,
GEN 15:21 and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.
GEN 16:1 And Sarai, the wife of Abram, bore not to him. But there was to her a maidservant, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
GEN 16:2 And Sarai said to Abram, Behold, the LORD closed me up to not bear. Enter then to my maidservant, that I may produce children from her! And Abram obeyed the voice of Sarai.
GEN 16:3 And the wife of Abram having taken Hagar, the Egyptian, her maidservant, after ten years of living with Abram in the land of Canaan, then gave her to Abram her husband to be to him for a wife.
GEN 16:4 And he entered to Hagar, and she conceived. And she saw that she had one in the womb, and the lady was dishonored before her.
GEN 16:5 And Sarai said to Abram, I am being wronged because of you. I gave my maidservant to your bosom, and seeing that she had one in the womb, I was dishonored before her. May God judge between me and you.
GEN 16:6 And Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your maidservant is in your hands, treat her however might be pleasing to you. And Sarai maltreated her, and she ran away from her face.
GEN 16:7 And the angel of the LORD found her upon the spring of water in the wilderness, upon the land in the way of Shur.
GEN 16:8 And the angel of the LORD said to her, Hagar, maidservant of Sarai, from what place do you come, and where do you go? And she said, I am running away from the face of Sarai my lady.
GEN 16:9 And the angel of the LORD said to her, You return to your lady, and be humble under her hands!
GEN 16:10 And the angel of the LORD said to her, In multiplying I will multiply your seed, and it shall not be counted because of the multitude.
GEN 16:11 And the angel of the LORD said to her, Behold, you have one in the womb, and you shall bear a son, and you shall call his name Ishmael, for the LORD heeded your humiliation.
GEN 16:12 This one will be a rugged man; his hands will be upon all, and the hands of all upon him. And he will dwell before the face of all his brothers.
GEN 16:13 And she called the name of the LORD speaking to her, You, God, are the one looking upon me. For she said, For even face to face I beheld the one appearing to me.
GEN 16:14 Because of this she called the well, Well of which I Beheld Face to Face; behold, it is between Kadesh and between Bared.
GEN 16:15 And Hagar bore to Abram a son. And Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore to him, Ishmael.
GEN 16:16 And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.
GEN 17:1 And Abram was ninety-nine years old, and the LORD appeared to Abram, and said to him, I am your God, you are well-pleasing before me - then be blameless!
GEN 17:2 And I will establish my covenant between me and between you, and I will multiply you exceedingly.
GEN 17:3 And Abram fell upon his face. And God spoke to him, saying,
GEN 17:4 And behold, my covenant is with you, and you will be father of a multitude of nations.
GEN 17:5 And your name will not be called Abram any longer, but your name will be Abraham; for I have appointed you father of many nations.
GEN 17:6 And I will increase you exceedingly exceedingly. And I will establish you for nations; and kings will come forth from you.
GEN 17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and between you, and between your seed after you, unto their generations, for an eternal covenant, to be your God, and of your seed after you.
GEN 17:8 And I will give to you and to your seed after you the land which you sojourn, all the land of Canaan, for an eternal possession; and I myself will be to them for God.
GEN 17:9 And God said to Abraham, You also shall observe my covenant, and your seed after you for their generations.
GEN 17:10 And this is the covenant which you shall observe between me and you, and between your seed after you - every male to you shall be circumcised.
GEN 17:11 And you shall be circumcised of the flesh of your foreskin. And it will be for a sign of covenant between me and you.
GEN 17:12 And a male child eight days old shall be circumcised by you - every male into your generations; the native-born servant of your house, and the one bought with silver, from every son of an alien who is not from your seed.
GEN 17:13 By circumcision he shall be circumcised - the native-born servant of your house, and the one bought with silver. And my covenant will be upon your flesh for an eternal covenant.
GEN 17:14 And the uncircumcised male who shall not be circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin in the eighth day, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from its race; for my covenant he effaced.
GEN 17:15 And God said to Abraham, Sarai your wife - her name shall not be called Sarai, but, Sarah will be her name.
GEN 17:16 And I will bless her, and I will give to you a child from her. And I will bless it, and it will be for nations; and kings of nations will be from him.
GEN 17:17 And Abraham fell upon his face and laughed. And he said in his mind, saying, Shall to the hundred year old be a son? And shall Sarah at ninety years bear?
GEN 17:18 And Abraham said to God, Ishmael, this one, let him live before you!
GEN 17:19 And God said to Abraham, Yes, behold, Sarah your wife will bear to you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac; and I will establish my covenant with him for an eternal covenant, and to his seed after him.
GEN 17:20 And concerning Ishmael, behold, I heeded you. And behold, I shall bless him, and I will increase him, and I will multiply him exceedingly. Twelve nations he will procreate, and I will make him for a great nation.
GEN 17:21 But my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time in another year.
GEN 17:22 And he completed speaking to him. And God ascended from Abraham.
GEN 17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all his native-born servants, and all the ones bought with silver, and every male of the men in the house of Abraham; and he circumcised their foreskins in that time of the day, as God spoke to him.
GEN 17:24 And Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he circumcised the flesh of his foreskin.
GEN 17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he circumcised the flesh of his foreskin.
GEN 17:26 In that time of the day Abraham was circumcised, and Ishmael his son,
GEN 17:27 and all the males of his house, and the native-born servants, and the ones bought with silver from foreign nations.
GEN 18:1 And God appeared to him before the oak in Mamre, at his sitting near the door of his tent at midday.
GEN 18:2 And lifting up his eyes he looked, and behold, three men had set upon him. And seeing, he ran up to meet with them from the door of his tent, and did obeisance upon the ground.
GEN 18:3 And he said, O Lord, if surely I found favor before you, you should not go by your servant.
GEN 18:4 Let there be taken now water, and let them wash your feet, and be cooled under the tree!
GEN 18:5 And I will bring bread, and you shall eat, and after this you shall go in your journey, because of which you turned aside to your servant. And they said, Thus do as you have said!
GEN 18:6 And Abraham hastened unto the tent to Sarah. And he said to her, Hasten and mix up three measures of fine flour, and make a cake baked in hot ashes!
GEN 18:7 And Abraham ran to the oxen, and he took a tender and good young calf, and gave it to the servant; and he hastened to prepare it.
GEN 18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the young calf which he prepared, and placed it near to them, and they ate. And he stood beside them under the tree.
GEN 18:9 And he said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And answering, he said, Behold, in the tent.
GEN 18:10 And he said, Returning, I will come to you according to this time to the hour; and Sarah your wife will have a son. And Sarah heard by the door of the tent, being behind him.
GEN 18:11 And Abraham and Sarah were older, advanced of days. And Sarah ceased to be in the feminine ways.
GEN 18:12 And Sarah laughed in herself, saying, For not yet has it happened to me until now, and my lord is older.
GEN 18:13 And the LORD said to Abraham, Why is it that Sarah laughed in herself, saying, Indeed is it truly I will bear, and I have grown old?
GEN 18:14 Is the saying impossible to the LORD? At this time to the hour I will return to you, and there will be to Sarah a son.
GEN 18:15 But Sarah denied, saying, I did not laugh; for she feared. And he said to her, No, but you laughed!
GEN 18:16 And having risen up from there, the men looked down upon the face of Sodom and Gomorrah. And Abraham went with them, escorting them.
GEN 18:17 And the LORD said, No way shall I hide from Abraham my servant what I do.
GEN 18:18 But coming to pass to Abraham, he will be made into a great and populous nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed by him.
GEN 18:19 For I had known that he will order his sons, and his house after him; and they will guard the ways of the LORD, to do righteousness and good judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham all as much as he said to him.
GEN 18:20 And the LORD said, The cry of Sodom and Gomorrah has multiplied towards me, and their sins are great, exceedingly.
GEN 18:21 Going down then, I will see if it is according to their cry coming to me that they exhaust; and if not - that I may know.
GEN 18:22 And turning back from there, the men came unto Sodom. And Abraham was still standing before the LORD.
GEN 18:23 And Abraham approaching, said, You would not destroy together a just one with an impious one, and the just one will be as the impious one?
GEN 18:24 If there might be fifty just ones in the city, will you destroy them? Will you not spare all the place because of the fifty just ones, if there should be so in it?
GEN 18:25 By no means shall you do as this saying, to kill a just one with an impious one, and the just one shall be as the impious one; by no means, O one judging all the earth. Will you not execute judgment?
GEN 18:26 And the LORD said, If there should be in Sodom fifty just ones in the city, I will leave off doing so to all the place on account of them.
GEN 18:27 And Abraham responding said, Now that I began to speak to my Lord, and I am earth and ashes.
GEN 18:28 But if the fifty just ones may be lessened to forty-five - will you destroy because of the five, all the city? And he said, No way will I destroy if I find there forty-five.
GEN 18:29 And he added yet to speak to him. And he said, But if there may be found there forty? And he said, No way should I destroy because of the forty.
GEN 18:30 And he said, Much less, O Lord, if I may speak, but if there may be found there thirty? And he said, No way will I destroy because of the thirty.
GEN 18:31 And he said, Since I have taken to speak to the Lord, but if there may be found there twenty? And he said, No way will I destroy if I should find there twenty.
GEN 18:32 And he said, Much less, O Lord, if I may speak still once more, but if there may be found there ten? And he said, No way will I destroy because of the ten.
GEN 18:33 And the LORD went forth as he ceased speaking to Abraham. And Abraham returned to his place.
GEN 19:1 And the two angels came into Sodom at evening. And Lot settled by the city of Sodom. And seeing, Lot rose up to meet them, and did obeisance with the face upon the ground.
GEN 19:2 And he said, Behold lords, turn aside to the house of your servant, and rest up, and wash your feet, that rising early you may go forth into your way. And they said, No, but in the square we will rest up.
GEN 19:3 And he constrained them, and they turned aside towards him, and entered into his house. And he made for them a banquet, and baked unleavened breads for them, and they ate.
GEN 19:4 Before putting to bed, the men of the city, the Sodomites, surrounded the house, from young man unto elder, all the people together.
GEN 19:5 And they called forth Lot. And they said to him, Where are they, the men entering to you by the night? Lead them to us, that we may be intimate with them!
GEN 19:6 And Lot came forth to them, to the threshold, and shut the door behind him.
GEN 19:7 And he said to them, By no means, brothers, should you do wickedly.
GEN 19:8 But there are to me two daughters who knew not a man. I will lead them to you, and you treat them according as pleasing to you! Only to these men you should not do unjust, because they entered under the protection of my beams.
GEN 19:9 And they said to him, You left there to enter here to sojourn, and not to judge with judgment. Now then to you we will inflict evil rather than them. And they were pressing the man Lot exceedingly, and they approached to break the door.
GEN 19:10 And the men stretching out the hands, drew Lot towards themselves into the house, and the door of the house they locked.
GEN 19:11 And the men being at the door of the house were struck with inability to see, from small unto great, and were disabled in seeking the door.
GEN 19:12 And the men said to Lot, Are there in-laws to you here, or sons or daughters? Or if there is any other to you in the city, you lead them out of this place!
GEN 19:13 For we destroy this place, for their cry was raised up high before the LORD; and the LORD sent us to obliterate it.
GEN 19:14 And Lot went forth, and spoke to his sons-in-law, the ones taking his daughters. And he said, Rise up, and come forth from out of this place, for the LORD is obliterating the city! But he seemed to be joking before his sons-in-law.
GEN 19:15 And when dawn came, the angels hurried Lot, saying, In rising up, take your wife and your two daughters whom you have, and come forth that you should not also be destroyed together in the lawlessnesses of the city!
GEN 19:16 And they were disturbed. And the angels held his hand, and the hand of his wife, and the hands of his two daughters, in the LORD sparing him.
GEN 19:17 And it came to pass when they led them outside, and said, By escaping escape with your own life! You should not look round about to the rear, nor stand in any round about place. Escape into the mountain! lest at any time you may be taken along with them.
GEN 19:18 And Lot said to them, I beseech, O lord,
GEN 19:19 since your servant found favor before you, and you magnified your righteousness, which you do unto me that my soul may live, but I will not be able to come through safe into the mountain lest the evils should overtake me, and I should die.
GEN 19:20 Behold, this certain city is near for me to take refuge there, which is small - there I will be delivered. Is it not a small thing that my soul will live because of you?
GEN 19:21 And he said to him, Behold, I admired your countenance over this saying, To not eradicate the city, concerning of which you spoke.
GEN 19:22 You hasten then to escape there, for I will not be able to do the thing until you go there! On account of this he called the name of that city Zoar.
GEN 19:23 The sun came up upon the earth, and Lot entered into Zoar.
GEN 19:24 And the LORD rained upon Sodom and Gomorrah sulphur and fire from the LORD from out of heaven.
GEN 19:25 And he eradicated these cities, and all the place round about, and all the ones dwelling in the cities, and the things rising from out of the ground.
GEN 19:26 And his wife looked unto the rear, and she became a monument of salt.
GEN 19:27 And Abraham rose early in the morning to the place of which he had stood before the LORD.
GEN 19:28 And he looked upon the face of Sodom and Gomorrah, and upon the face of the place round about. And he saw, and behold, a flame ascended from out of the earth as vapor of a furnace.
GEN 19:29 And it came to pass in God obliterating all the adjacent cities, God remembered Abraham, and sent out Lot from the middle of the final event, in the eradicating the cities in which Lot dwelt in them.
GEN 19:30 And Lot came forth from out of Zoar, and settled in the mountain, and the two daughters of his with him; for he feared dwelling in Zoar. And he dwelt in the cave, he and the two daughters of his with him.
GEN 19:31 And the elder said to the younger, Our father is older, and there is no one upon the land who will enter to us as it is fit in all the earth.
GEN 19:32 Come, and we should give our father wine to drink, and we should go to bed with him, that we might raise up seed from our father.
GEN 19:33 And they gave their father wine to drink in that night. And entering, the elder went to bed with her father in that night, and he knew not about her going to bed, and rising up.
GEN 19:34 And it came to pass in the next day, and the elder said to the younger, Behold, I went to bed yesterday with our father. We should give him wine to drink also in this night, and entering, you go to bed with him, that we might raise up seed from our father!
GEN 19:35 And they gave to drink also in that night wine for their father. And entering, the younger went to bed with her father. And he knew not about her going to bed, and rising up.
GEN 19:36 And the two daughters of Lot conceived from their father.
GEN 19:37 And the elder bore a son, and she called his name Moab, saying, He is from my father. This one is father of the Moabites unto today's day.
GEN 19:38 And the younger also bore a son, and she called his name Ammon, saying, he is a son of my family. This one is father of the Ammonites until today's day.
GEN 20:1 And Abraham moved from there into the land towards the south, and lived between Kadesh and between Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.
GEN 20:2 And Abraham said concerning Sarah his wife, that, She is my sister. For he feared to say that, She is my wife, lest at any time the men of the city should kill him on account of her. So Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
GEN 20:3 And God entered to Abimelech by sleep in the night. And he said, Behold, you die on account of the woman of whom you took, for she is living with a husband.
GEN 20:4 And Abimelech touched her not. And he said, O Lord, will you destroy a nation ignorant and just?
GEN 20:5 Said he not to me, She is my sister? And she said to me, He is my brother. With a clean heart and with righteousness of hands I did this.
GEN 20:6 And God said to him by sleep, And I knew that with a clean heart you did this, and I spared you - for you to not sin against me; because of this I did not let you touch her.
GEN 20:7 And now, give back the wife to the man; for he is a prophet, and he will pray concerning you, and you shall live. But if you do not give back, you shall know that you shall die, you, and all the ones yours.
GEN 20:8 And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and he called all his servants, and he spoke all these words into their ears. And all the men feared exceedingly.
GEN 20:9 And Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, What is this you did to us? lest we sinned against you, that you bring upon me and upon my kingdom a great sin. A work which no one will do you have done to me.
GEN 20:10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What seeing did you do this?
GEN 20:11 And Abraham said, For I said, Surely there is not godliness in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife.
GEN 20:12 For also truly she is my sister from my father, but not from my mother; and she became to me for wife.
GEN 20:13 And it happened when God led me from out of the house of my father, and I said to her, This righteousness you will do for me in every place of which ever I enter - there you say of me that, He is my brother!
GEN 20:14 And Abimelech took a thousand double-drachmas, and sheep, and calves, and menservants, and maidservants, and gave to Abraham; and he gave back to him Sarah his wife.
GEN 20:15 And Abimelech said to Abraham, Behold, my land is before you; which ever it may please you, dwell there!
GEN 20:16 And to Sarah he said, Behold, I have given a thousand double-drachmas to your brother; these will be to you for the value of your person, and all the ones with you - and you be truthful in all things!
GEN 20:17 And Abraham prayed to God. And God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants, and they bore.
GEN 20:18 For in closing up, the LORD closed up outside every womb in the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah the wife of Abraham.
GEN 21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he said, and the LORD did to Sarah as he spoke.
GEN 21:2 And conceiving she bore to Abraham a son in old age, in the time as the LORD spoke to him.
GEN 21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son born to him, whom Sarah bore to him - Isaac.
GEN 21:4 And Abraham circumcised Isaac on the eighth day, as God gave charge to him.
GEN 21:5 And Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac his son was born to him.
GEN 21:6 And Sarah said, The LORD caused laughter to me, for whoever may hear will rejoice along with me.
GEN 21:7 And she said, Who will announce to Abraham, that Sarah nurses a male child? For I bore a son in my old age.
GEN 21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned. And Abraham made a great banquet the day Isaac his son was weaned.
GEN 21:9 And Sarah beholding the son of Hagar the Egyptian, who was born to Abraham, playing with Isaac her son,
GEN 21:10 that she said to Abraham, You cast out this maidservant and her son! for not shall the son of the be heir maidservant with my son Isaac.
GEN 21:11 But the saying appeared very hard before Abraham concerning his son Ishmael.
GEN 21:12 And God said to Abraham, Let it not be hard before you on account of the child, and on account of the maidservant! All as much as Sarah should have said to you, you hearken to her voice! For by Isaac a seed shall be called to you.
GEN 21:13 But also the son of this maidservant I will make into a great nation, for he is your seed.
GEN 21:14 And Abraham rose up in the morning, and took breads, and a leather bag of water, and gave to Hagar, and placed the male child upon her shoulders, and sent her. And she went forth wandering about the wilderness by the Well of the Oath.
GEN 21:15 But the water ceased coming from out of the leather bag, and she tossed the male child underneath one fir tree.
GEN 21:16 And going forth, she sat down before him far off, as a bow shot; for she said, No way shall I see the death of my child. And she sat before him. And yelling out the child wept.
GEN 21:17 But God listened to the voice of the child from out of the place of which he was. And an angel of God called Hagar from out of the heaven, and said to her, What is it, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heeded the voice of your child from out of the place of which he is!
GEN 21:18 Rise up, and take the child, and hold it in your hand, for I will make it into a great nation!
GEN 21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of living water; and she went and filled the leather bag of water, and gave a drink to the child.
GEN 21:20 And God was with the child; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became a bowman.
GEN 21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran. And his mother took to him a wife from the land of Egypt.
GEN 21:22 And it came to pass in that time, that Abimelech spoke, along with Ahuzzath his groomsman, and Phichol, the commander-in-chief of his force, to Abraham, saying, God is with you in all things what ever you should do.
GEN 21:23 Now then swear by an oath to me by God that you will not wrong me, nor my seed, nor my name; but according to the righteousness which I did with you, you shall do with me, and in the land in which you sojourned in it!
GEN 21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear by an oath.
GEN 21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech on account of the wells of water, which the servants of Abimelech removed.
GEN 21:26 And Abimelech said to him, I know not who did this matter, nor you reported it to me, nor I heard - but only today.
GEN 21:27 And Abraham took sheep and calves, and gave to Abimelech; and both ordained a covenant.
GEN 21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe-lambs of sheep alone.
GEN 21:29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What are the seven ewe-lambs of sheep - these which you set alone?
GEN 21:30 And he said, that, You shall take of these seven ewe-lambs of mine, that they should be to me for a testimony that I dug this well.
GEN 21:31 Because of this the name of that place was named, Well of the Oath; for there both swore by an oath.
GEN 21:32 And they ordained a covenant at the Well of the Oath. And Abimelech rose up, and Ahuzzath his groomsman, and Phichol the commander-in-chief of his force, and they returned to the land of the Philistines.
GEN 21:33 And Abraham planted plowed fields near to the Well of the Oath. And he called there the name of the LORD - God eternal.
GEN 21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.
GEN 22:1 And it came to pass after these matters, that God tested Abraham, and said to him, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Behold, it is I.
GEN 22:2 And he said, Take your son, the beloved, whom you loved - Isaac, and go into the high land, and offer him there as a whole offering upon one of the mountains which ever I may tell you!
GEN 22:3 And Abraham rising up in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took with himself two servants, and Isaac his son. And splitting wood for a whole offering, rising up to go, then they came upon the place which God spoke to him, on the third day.
GEN 22:4 And Abraham looking up with his eyes, saw the place far off.
GEN 22:5 And Abraham said to his servants, You sit yourselves with the donkey, and I and the lad will go through unto here, and doing obeisance we will return to you!
GEN 22:6 And Abraham took the wood for the whole offering, and placed it upon Isaac his son. And he took with his hands the fire and the knife; and the two went together.
GEN 22:7 And Isaac said to Abraham his father, Father. And he said, What is it child? And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood; where is the sheep for a whole offering?
GEN 22:8 And Abraham said, God will see to himself a sheep for a whole offering, child. And both going together,
GEN 22:9 they came upon the place which God spoke to him. And Abraham built there the altar, and placed the wood upon it. And binding Isaac his son hand and foot, he placed him upon the altar upon the wood.
GEN 22:10 And Abraham stretched his hand to take the knife to slay his son.
GEN 22:11 And an angel of the LORD called him from out of the heaven. And said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Behold, it is I.
GEN 22:12 And he said, You should not put your hand upon the lad, nor should you do anything to him by any means; for now I know that you fear God, and spared not your beloved son on account of me.
GEN 22:13 And Abraham looking up with his eyes, saw. And behold, one ram being held in a plant of a thicket by the horns. And Abraham went and took the ram, and offered it for a whole offering instead of Isaac his son.
GEN 22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place, The LORD saw; that they may say today, the LORD was seen in the mountain.
GEN 22:15 And the angel of the LORD called Abraham a second time from out of the heaven, saying,
GEN 22:16 According to myself I swear by an oath, says the LORD, because of which you did this matter, and you spared not your beloved son on account of me;
GEN 22:17 assuredly in blessing I will bless you, and in multiplying I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand by the edge of the sea. And your seed shall inherit the cities of your opponents.
GEN 22:18 And all the nations of the earth will be blessed by your seed, because you obeyed my voice.
GEN 22:19 And Abraham returned to his servants. And rising up they went together to the Well of the Oath. And Abraham dwelt near the Well of the Oath.
GEN 22:20 And it came to pass after these matters that it was announced to Abraham, saying, Behold, even Milcah herself has born sons to Nahor your brother.
GEN 22:21 Huz first-born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel father of the Syrians,
GEN 22:22 and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph and Bethuel.
GEN 22:23 And Bethuel procreated Rebekah. These are the eight sons whom Milcah bore to Nahor, the brother of Abraham.
GEN 22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, bore even herself Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.
GEN 23:1 And the life of Sarah was a hundred twenty-seven years.
GEN 23:2 And Sarah died in the city of Arba, which is in the hollow - this is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to lament Sarah, and to mourn.
GEN 23:3 And Abraham rose up from his dead. And Abraham said to the sons of Heth, saying,
GEN 23:4 I am a sojourner and an immigrant among you. Give then to me a possession of a burying-place among you, and I will entomb my dead away from me!
GEN 23:5 And the sons of Heth answered to Abraham, saying, No, O lord.
GEN 23:6 But hear us. You are with us as a king by God. You entomb your dead in our choice sepulchres! For not one of us in any way will withold his sepulchre from you to entomb your dead there.
GEN 23:7 And rising up, Abraham did obeisance to the people of the land, to the sons of Heth.
GEN 23:8 And Abraham spoke to them, saying, If you have it in your soul so as to entomb my dead away from my presence, hear me, and speak about me to Ephron the son of Zohar!
GEN 23:9 And let him give to me the double cave which is his - the one being in a part of his field. Let him give it to me for its worth of silver, for a possession of a memorial among you.
GEN 23:10 And Ephron was sitting down in the midst of the sons of Heth. And responding Ephron the Hittite spoke to Abraham in the hearing of the sons of Heth, and of all the ones entering into the city, saying,
GEN 23:11 By me let it be, O lord, and hear me! The field, and the cave in it, I give to you. Before all of my fellow-countrymen I have given it to you. You entomb your dead.
GEN 23:12 And Abraham did obeisance before the people of the land.
GEN 23:13 And he said to Ephron, in the ears before the people of the land, Since you are with me, hear me! The silver for the field, you take from me, and I will entomb my dead there!
GEN 23:14 And Ephron answered to Abraham, saying,
GEN 23:15 Not so, O lord, for I heard four hundred double-drachmas of silver; but what ever may this be between me and you? But you entomb your dead!
GEN 23:16 And Abraham hearkened to Ephron. And Abraham restored to Ephron the silver, which he spoke into the ears of the sons of Heth - four hundred double-drachmas of unadulterated silver of merchants.
GEN 23:17 And the field which is of Ephron was in Double Cave, which is against the face of Mamre. The field, and the cave which was in it, and every tree which was in the field, which is in its borders round about,
GEN 23:18 came to Abraham for a possession before the sons of Heth, and of all the ones entering into the city.
GEN 23:19 And after these things Abraham entombed Sarah his wife in the cave of the field at Double Cave, which is before Mamre - this is Hebron in the land of Canaan.
GEN 23:20 And the field was validated, and the cave which was in it, to Abraham for a possession of a burying-place from the sons of Heth.
GEN 24:1 And Abraham was older, advancing of days. And the LORD blessed Abraham according to all things.
GEN 24:2 And Abraham said to his servant, to the elder of his house in charge of all his things, Put your hand under my thigh!
GEN 24:3 And I adjure you by the LORD God of the heaven, and the God of the earth, that you should not take a wife to my son Isaac from the daughters of the Canaanites, with whom I live among them.
GEN 24:4 But only unto my land of which I was shall you go, and unto my tribe. And you shall take a wife for my son Isaac from there.
GEN 24:5 And the servant said to him, If at any time the woman wills not to go back with me into this land, shall I return your son into the land from where you came forth from there?
GEN 24:6 And Abraham said to him, Take heed to yourself that you should not return my son there.
GEN 24:7 The LORD God of the heaven, and the God of the earth, who took me from my father's house, and from out of the land of which I was born, who spoke to me, and who swore by an oath to me, saying, To you I will give this land and your seed - he will send his angel in front of you, and you shall take a wife for my son from there.
GEN 24:8 And if the woman should not want to go with you into this land, you will be clean from this oath; only you should not return my son there.
GEN 24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and swore by an oath to him on account of this saying.
GEN 24:10 And the servant took ten camels from the camels of his master, and from all the good things of his master with himself. And rising up, he went into Mesopotamia, into the city of Nahor.
GEN 24:11 And he rested the camels outside of the city by the Well of the Water, towards late in the day, when the women came forth drawing water.
GEN 24:12 And he said, O LORD God of my master Abraham, prosper the way before me today, and perform mercy with my master Abraham!
GEN 24:13 Behold, I stand near the spring of water, and the daughters of the men living in the city come forth to draw water.
GEN 24:14 And it shall be the virgin, who ever I should have said, Incline your water-pitcher, that I might drink! And she should have said to me, You drink, and I will water your camels until whenever they cease to drink - this one you prepared for your servant Isaac! And in this I will know that you executed mercy with my master Abraham.
GEN 24:15 And it came to pass before completing his speaking in his mind, that behold, Rebekah came forth - the one born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, and brother of Abraham, having the water-pitcher upon her shoulders.
GEN 24:16 And the virgin was good in the appearance - exceedingly. She was a virgin, not a man knew her. And coming upon the spring, she filled her water-pitcher, and ascended.
GEN 24:17 And the servant ran to meet with her, and said, Give me to drink a little water from out of your water-pitcher!
GEN 24:18 And she said, Drink, O lord! And she hastened, and lowered the water-pitcher upon her arm, and gave him to drink, until he ceased drinking.
GEN 24:19 And she said, Also to your camels I will draw water until whenever all should have drunk.
GEN 24:20 And she hastened, and emptied out the water-pitcher into the channel, and ran yet again unto the well to draw water, and drew water for all the camels.
GEN 24:21 And the man studied her, and remained silent to know if the LORD prospered his way or not.
GEN 24:22 And it came to pass, when all the camels ceased drinking, the man took ear-rings of gold worth up to a drachma scale-weight, and two bracelets, and put them upon her hands - ten pieces of gold scale-weight was their weight.
GEN 24:23 And he asked her, and said, Whose daughter are you? Announce to me if there is by your father a place for us to rest up!
GEN 24:24 And she said to him, I am the daughter of Bathuel, the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor.
GEN 24:25 And she said to him, Also there is much straw and fodder by us, and a place to rest up.
GEN 24:26 And the man finding favor, did obeisance to the LORD, and said,
GEN 24:27 Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who abandoned not the righteousness and the truth from my master - the LORD indeed prospered me to the house of the brother of my master.
GEN 24:28 And running, the maidservant announced in the house of her mother about these words.
GEN 24:29 And to Rebekah there was a brother whose name was Laban. And Laban ran to the man outside near the spring.
GEN 24:30 And it came to pass when he saw the ear-rings, and the bracelets upon the hands of his sister, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, So spoke to me the man; that he came to the man standing by himself by the camels near the spring.
GEN 24:31 And he said to him, Come, enter blessed of the LORD! Why stand outside? For I prepared the residence, and a place for the camels.
GEN 24:32 And the man entered into the residence. And he unharnessed the camels, and gave straw and fodder to the camels, and water for his feet, and to the feet of the men with him.
GEN 24:33 And he placed near them breads to eat. And he said, No way will I eat until speaking my words. And he said, Speak!
GEN 24:34 And he said, A servant of Abraham I am.
GEN 24:35 And the LORD blessed my master exceedingly, and he was raised up high; and he gave to him sheep, and calves, and silver, and pieces of gold, and menservants, and maidservants, camels, and donkeys.
GEN 24:36 And Sarah the wife of my master bore a son, one to my master after his growing old; and he gave to him as much as was his.
GEN 24:37 And my master bound me by an oath, saying, You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in which I sojourned in their land.
GEN 24:38 But unto the house of my father you should go, and to my tribe; and you shall take a wife for my son.
GEN 24:39 And I said to my master, Perhaps the woman should not go with me.
GEN 24:40 And he said to me, The LORD God in whom I was found well-pleasing before him, he will send out his angel with you, and prosper your way; and you will take a wife for my son from out of my tribe, and from out of the house of my father.
GEN 24:41 Then you will be innocent concerning my oath. For when ever you should have come to my tribe, and they should not give her to you, then you will be innocent concerning my oath.
GEN 24:42 And coming today upon the spring, I said, O LORD, the God of my master Abraham, if you prosper my way in which now I go by it,
GEN 24:43 behold, I stand near the spring of water, and the daughters of the men of the city came forth to draw water, and it will be the virgin to whom ever I should say, Give me a little water to drink from your water-pitcher!
GEN 24:44 And she should have said to me, You also drink, and to your camels I will draw water! she is the woman whom the LORD prepared for his own attendant Isaac. And in this you will know that you have done mercy to my master Abraham.
GEN 24:45 And it came to pass before the completing my speaking in my mind, straightway Rebekah came forth having the water-pitcher upon the shoulders; and she went down to the spring, and drew water. And I said to her, Give me a drink!
GEN 24:46 And she hastened to lower the water-pitcher upon her arm from herself, and she said, You drink, and I will water your camels! And I drank, and she watered the camels.
GEN 24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter are you? And she said, I am the daughter of Bethuel, son of Nahor, whom Milcah bore to him. And I put on her the ear-rings, and the bracelets about her hands.
GEN 24:48 And finding favor, I did obeisance to the LORD. And I blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, who prospered me in the way of truth, to take the daughter of the brother of my master to his son.
GEN 24:49 If then you do mercy and righteousness to my master, report to me that I might turn to the right or left!
GEN 24:50 And answering Laban and Bethuel said, From the LORD came forth this thing; we will not be able to contradict bad or good.
GEN 24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before you. In taking her run, and let her be wife to the son of your master as the LORD spoke!
GEN 24:52 And their words having taken place in the hearing of the servant of Abraham, he did obeisance upon the ground to the LORD.
GEN 24:53 And the servant brought forth items made of silver and of gold. And he gave clothes to Rebekah; and he gave gifts to her brother, and to her mother.
GEN 24:54 And they ate and drank. And he and the men being with him went to sleep. And rising up in the morning, he said, Send me forth, that I may go forth to my master!
GEN 24:55 And her brothers and mother said, Let the virgin remain with us about ten days, and after this she shall go forth!
GEN 24:56 And he said to them, Do not hold me, for the LORD prospered my way! Send me, that I may go forth to my master!
GEN 24:57 And they said, We should call the maidservant, and should ask by her mouth.
GEN 24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said to her, Will you go with this man? And she said, I will go.
GEN 24:59 And they sent forth Rebekah their sister, and her possessions, and the servant of Abraham, and the ones with him.
GEN 24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said to her, You are our sister, become for a thousand myriads, and let your seed inherit the cities of your opponents!
GEN 24:61 And rising up, Rebekah and her handmaidens mounted upon the camels and went with the man. And taking the girl Rebekah, he went forth.
GEN 24:62 And Isaac was traveling over through the wilderness by the Well of the Vision. And he dwelt in the land towards the south.
GEN 24:63 And Isaac came forth to meditate in the plain towards the afternoon; and looking up with his eyes he saw camels coming.
GEN 24:64 And Rebekah looking up with the eyes saw Isaac, and she leaped down from the camel.
GEN 24:65 And she said to the servant, Who is that man going in the plain to meet us? And said the servant, This is my master. And she, having taken the lightweight covering, put it on.
GEN 24:66 And the servant described to Isaac all the matters which he did.
GEN 24:67 And Isaac entered into the house of his mother. And he took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. And Isaac was comforted concerning Sarah his mother.
GEN 25:1 And Abraham added to take a wife whose name was Keturah.
GEN 25:2 And she bore to him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
GEN 25:3 And Jokshan procreated Sheba and Dedan. And sons of Dedan were the Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
GEN 25:4 And the sons of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were sons of Keturah.
GEN 25:5 And Abraham gave all his possessions to Isaac his son.
GEN 25:6 And to the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts. And he sent them from Isaac his son while he was still living towards the east, into the land of the east.
GEN 25:7 And these were the years of the days of the life of Abraham, as many as he lived - a hundred seventy-five years.
GEN 25:8 And failing, Abraham died in a good old age, an old man, and full of days. And he was added to his people.
GEN 25:9 And Isaac and Ishmael his two sons entombed him in the double cave in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre.
GEN 25:10 The field and the cave which Abraham acquired from the sons of Heth - there they entombed Abraham and Sarah his wife.
GEN 25:11 And it came to pass after the dying of Abraham, God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt by the Well of the Vision.
GEN 25:12 And these are the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, whom Hagar bore (the Egyptian maidservant of Sarah) to Abraham.
GEN 25:13 And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, according to the names of his generations. First-born of Ishmael, Nebajoth, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
GEN 25:14 and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
GEN 25:15 and Hadar, and Tema, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah.
GEN 25:16 These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are the names of them by their tents, and by their properties - twelve rulers according to their nations.
GEN 25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael - a hundred thirty-seven years. And failing, he died, and was added to his family.
GEN 25:18 And he dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, which is against the face of Egypt, unto coming to Assyria. By the face of all his brothers he dwelt.
GEN 25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac the son of Abraham.
GEN 25:20 Abraham procreated Isaac. And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, daughter of Bethuel the Syrian, to himself for wife.
GEN 25:21 And Isaac beseeched the LORD concerning Rebekah his wife, for she was sterile; and his God listened, and Rebekah his wife conceived in the womb.
GEN 25:22 And the male babies leaped in her. And she said, If thus is about to happen to me, why is this to me? And she went to inquire of the LORD.
GEN 25:23 And the LORD said to her, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from out of your belly will draw apart. And one people will be superior over the other people; and the greater will be a servant to the lesser.
GEN 25:24 And the days were fulfilled for her to bear, and thus there were twins in her belly.
GEN 25:25 And came forth the first-born of a ruddy color entirely, and of hairy skin; and she named his name Esau.
GEN 25:26 And after this came forth his brother, and his hand took hold of the heel of Esau; and she called his name Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old when Rebekah bore them.
GEN 25:27 And the young ones grew. And Esau was a man knowing to hunt with hounds - rugged. But Jacob was a simple man living in a residence.
GEN 25:28 But Isaac loved Esau for the hunting of his food for him. But Rebekah loved Jacob.
GEN 25:29 And Jacob boiled stew; and Esau came from out of the plains - failing.
GEN 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Let me taste from this spicy stew, for I fail. On account of this his name was called Edom.
GEN 25:31 And Jacob said to Esau, Give to me today your rights as first-born.
GEN 25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am going to come to an end, and what to me are these - the rights of the first-born?
GEN 25:33 And Jacob said to him, You swear by an oath to me today! And he swore by an oath to him. And Esau gave the rights of the first-born to Jacob.
GEN 25:34 And Jacob gave to Esau bread and stew of lentils. And he ate and drank, and rising up, he set out. And Esau treated as worthless the rights of the first-born.
GEN 26:1 And there became a famine upon the land, separate from the famine formerly, which happened in the time of Abraham. And Isaac went to Abimelech king of the Philistines in Gerar.
GEN 26:2 And the LORD appeared to him, and said, You should not go down into Egypt, but dwell in the land which ever I should tell you!
GEN 26:3 And sojourn in this land, and I will be with you, and will bless you! For to you, and to your seed, I will give all this land, and I will establish my oath which I swore to Abraham your father.
GEN 26:4 And I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heaven, and will give to your seed all this land. And all the nations of the earth shall be blessed by your seed;
GEN 26:5 because Abraham your father obeyed my voice, and guarded my orders, and my commandments, and my ordinances, and my laws.
GEN 26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar.
GEN 26:7 And the men of the place asked concerning Rebekah his wife. And he said, She is my sister; for he feared to say that, She is my wife; lest at any time the men of the place should kill him on account of Rebekah; for her appearance was beautiful.
GEN 26:8 And he became long-lived there. And with Abimelech the king of Gerar leaning over through the window, he beheld Isaac playing with Rebekah his wife.
GEN 26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said to him, So indeed is she your wife? Why is it that you said, She is my sister? And Isaac said to him, For I said it lest at any time I might die on account of her.
GEN 26:10 And Abimelech said to him, What is this you did to us? Is it a small thing if someone of my kind went to bed with your wife, and you brought upon us a sin of ignorance?
GEN 26:11 And Abimelech gave orders to all his people, saying, Any one touching this man and his wife will be liable unto death.
GEN 26:12 And Isaac sowed in that land. And he found in that year barley bearing a hundred fold; and the LORD blessed him.
GEN 26:13 And the man was exalted, and was advancing greater, until of which he became exceedingly great.
GEN 26:14 And there became to him herds of sheep, and herds of oxen, and many farms. And the Philistines envied him.
GEN 26:15 And all the wells which the servants of his father dug the Philistines obstructed them in the time of his father, and filled them with earth.
GEN 26:16 And Abimelech said to Isaac, Go forth from us! for you became exceedingly mightier than us.
GEN 26:17 And Isaac went forth from there and rested up in the ravine of Gerar, and dwelt there.
GEN 26:18 And again Isaac dug the wells of water which the servants of Abraham his father dug; and the Philistines obstructed them, after the dying of Abraham his father. And he named them with names according to the names which his father named.
GEN 26:19 And the servants of Isaac dug in the ravine of Gerar, and found there a well of living water.
GEN 26:20 And the shepherds of Gerar did combat with the shepherds of Isaac, maintaining the water to be theirs. And they called the name of the well Injustice, for they wronged him.
GEN 26:21 And departing from there he dug another well, and they quarreled also on account of that well. And he named the name of it Hatred.
GEN 26:22 And departing from there he dug another well, and they did not do combat over it. And he named the name of it Open Plain, saying, For now the LORD widened us, and caused us to grow upon the earth.
GEN 26:23 And he ascended from there towards the Well of the Oath.
GEN 26:24 And the LORD appeared to him in that night, and said, I am the God of Abraham, the one of your father; do not fear, for I am with you! And I will bless you and multiply your seed because of Abraham your father.
GEN 26:25 And he built there an altar, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched there his tent; and the servants of Isaac dug a well there in the ravine Gerar.
GEN 26:26 And Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath his groomsman, and Phichol the commander-in-chief of his force.
GEN 26:27 And Isaac said to them, Why did you come to me, for you detested me, and you sent me from you?
GEN 26:28 And they said, Seeing, we have seen that the LORD was with you. And we said, Let there become an oath between us and between you! And we will ordain with you a covenant.
GEN 26:29 You shall not do evil with us, in so far as we did not abhor you, and which manner we treated you well, and we sent you out in peace - even now being blessed by the LORD.
GEN 26:30 And he made a banquet for them. And they ate and drank.
GEN 26:31 And rising up in the morning each swore by an oath to the neighbor. And Isaac sent them out, and they moved away from him with safety.
GEN 26:32 And it came to pass in that day, that the servants of Isaac coming, reported to him concerning the well which they dug, and said, We did not find water.
GEN 26:33 And he called it Oath. On account of this he called the name of that city, Well of Oath unto today's day.
GEN 26:34 And Esau was forty years old and he took a wife - Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath daughter of Elon the Hittite.
GEN 26:35 And they were contending with Isaac and Rebekah.
GEN 27:1 And it came to pass after the growing old of Isaac that his eyes were blunted to see, and he called Esau his older son, and said to him, My son. And he said, Behold, it is I.
GEN 27:2 And he said, Behold, I have grown old, and I know not the day of my decease.
GEN 27:3 Now then, take your equipment, both the quiver and the bow, and go forth into the plain and hunt game for me!
GEN 27:4 And make to me food, as I am fond of! And bring it to me that I may eat, so that my soul may bless you before my dying!
GEN 27:5 And Rebekah heard Isaac speaking to Esau his son. And Esau went into the plain to hunt game for his father.
GEN 27:6 And Rebekah said to Jacob her lesser - younger son., See! I heard your father speaking to Esau your brother, saying,
GEN 27:7 Bring to me game, and make food for me, that eating, I may bless you before the LORD, before my dying!
GEN 27:8 Now then, O my son, hear me as I give charge to you!
GEN 27:9 And going unto the sheep, you bring to me from there two kids, tender and good, and I will make them for food to your father, as he is fond of!
GEN 27:10 And you shall carry them in to your father, and he shall eat, that your father may bless you before his dying.
GEN 27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, My brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man.
GEN 27:12 Perhaps my father should handle me, and I will be before him as disdained; and I shall bring upon myself a curse and not a blessing.
GEN 27:13 And the mother said to him, Upon me be your curse, child; only you heed my voice, and in going bring them to me!
GEN 27:14 And going, he took them, and brought them to the mother. And his mother made food as his father was fond of.
GEN 27:15 And Rebekah having taken the apparel of Esau her elder son, the goodly, which was by her in the house, put it on Jacob her younger son.
GEN 27:16 And she put the skins of the kids upon his arms, and upon the naked parts of his neck.
GEN 27:17 And she gave the foods and the breads, which she made, into the hands of Jacob her son.
GEN 27:18 And he carried in to his father. And he said, O father. And he said, Behold, it is I. Who are you child?
GEN 27:19 And Jacob said to his father, I am Esau your first-born; I did as you told me; in rising up, take a seat and eat from my game, that your soul may bless me!
GEN 27:20 And Isaac said to his son, What is this which so quickly you found, O child? And he said, that which the LORD your God delivered up before me.
GEN 27:21 And Isaac said to Jacob, Approach to me, and I shall handle you child, to see if you are my son Esau or not!
GEN 27:22 And Jacob approached to Isaac his father. And he handled him, and said, Indeed the voice is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
GEN 27:23 And he did not recognized him, for his hands were as the hands of Esau his brother - hairy; and he blessed him.
GEN 27:24 And he said, You are my son Esau? And he said, I am.
GEN 27:25 And he said, Bring to me, and I will eat from your game, child, that my soul may bless you! And he brought it near to him, and he ate; and he carried to him wine, and he drank.
GEN 27:26 And Isaac his father said to him, Approach to me, and kiss me child!
GEN 27:27 And approaching, he kissed him. And he smelled the scent of his garments, and he blessed him. And he said, Behold, the scent of my son is as the scent of a full field which the LORD blessed.
GEN 27:28 And may God give to you from the dew of the heaven, and from the fatness of the earth, and a multitude of grain and wine.
GEN 27:29 And let nations be slave to you! And let rulers do obeisance to you! And you become master of your brother, and the sons of your father will do obeisance to you! The one cursing you will be accursed, and the one blessing you will be for a blessing.
GEN 27:30 And it came to pass after the ceasing of Isaac blessing Jacob his son, that it happened as Jacob went forth from the face of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came from the hunt.
GEN 27:31 And he made also himself food, and brought it near his father. And he said to the father, Rise up my father, and eat from the game of his son, that your soul may bless me!
GEN 27:32 And Isaac his father said to him, Who are you? And he said, I am your son, the first-born, Esau.
GEN 27:33 And Isaac was amazed with an exceedingly great change of state. And he said, Who then is the one hunting game for me, and carrying it in to me? And I ate from all before your coming, and blessed him - and a blessing let it be!
GEN 27:34 And it happened when Esau heard the words of his father Isaac, he yelled out with a great and exceedingly bitter voice. And he said, You bless indeed also me, O father!
GEN 27:35 And he said to him, In coming, your brother with cunning took your blessing.
GEN 27:36 And he said, Justly was his name called Jacob, for he has stomped upon me already this second time. Even my rights of the first-born he has taken, and now he took my blessing. And Esau said to his father, Have you not left behind to me a blessing, O father?
GEN 27:37 And answering Isaac said to Esau, If I made him master of you, and I made all his brothers his servants, to support him with grain and wine - then to you, what may I do child?
GEN 27:38 And Esau said to his father, Is there not one blessing in you, O father? Indeed bless me also, O father! And Isaac being vexed, Esau yelled out a sound, and wept.
GEN 27:39 And answering, Isaac his father said to him, Behold, from the fatness of the earth will be your dwelling, and from the dew of the heaven above.
GEN 27:40 And upon your sword you shall live, and to your brother you will be a servant; and it will be when ever you should demolish and loosen his yoke from your neck.
GEN 27:41 And Esau was angry at Jacob on account of the blessing of which his father blessed him. And Esau said in his mind, Let the days approach of the mourning of my father, that I may kill Jacob my brother!
GEN 27:42 And the words of Esau her elder son were reported to Rebekah. And sending forth, she called Jacob her younger son, and said to him, Behold, Esau your brother threatens you - to kill you.
GEN 27:43 Now then, child, hear my voice; and rising up run away into Mesopotamia to Laban my brother in Haran!
GEN 27:44 And live with him some days,
GEN 27:45 until the turning back the rage and the anger of your brother from you, and he should forget what you have done to him! And sending, I will fetch you from there, lest at any time I should be childless from the two of you in one day.
GEN 27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I loathe my life on account of the daughters of the sons of Heth. If Jacob shall take a wife from the daughters of this land, why is it to me to live?
GEN 28:1 And Isaac having called Jacob, he blessed him, and gave charge to him, saying, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of the Canaanites.
GEN 28:2 Having risen up, you run away unto Mesopotamia to the house of Bethuel the father of your mother; and take to yourself from there a wife from the daughters of Laban the brother of your mother!
GEN 28:3 And may my God bless you, and increase you, and multiply you; and you will be for gatherings of nations.
GEN 28:4 And may he give to you the blessing of Abraham my father; to you, and to your seed after you, to inherit the land of your sojourning, which God gave to Abraham.
GEN 28:5 And Isaac sent Jacob. And he went into Mesopotamia, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Syrian, brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau.
GEN 28:6 And Esau having seen that Isaac blessed Jacob, and sent him into Mesopotamia of Syria to take to himself a wife from there - in the blessing him, and gave charge to him, saying, You shall not take a wife of the daughters of the Canaanites.
GEN 28:7 And Jacob hearkened to his father and mother, and went into Mesopotamia of Syria.
GEN 28:8 And Esau even seeing that the daughters of Canaan are wicked before Isaac his father,
GEN 28:9 that Esau went to Ishmael, and he took Mahalath daughter of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, sister of Nebajoth, to his wives, as a wife.
GEN 28:10 And Jacob went forth from the Well of the Oath and went into Haran.
GEN 28:11 And he encountered a place, and slept there, for the sun went down. And he took from one of the stones of the place, and put it at his head, and went to sleep in that place.
GEN 28:12 And he dreamed, and behold, there was a stairway being supported by the earth, of which the top arrived into the heaven; and the angels of God ascended and descended upon it.
GEN 28:13 And the LORD stayed upon it. And he said, I am the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. Do not fear! The land of which you sleep upon it I will give it to you, and to your seed.
GEN 28:14 And your seed will be as sand of the earth. And it will be widened unto the west, and south, and north, and unto the east. And shall be blessed by you all the tribes of the earth, and by your seed.
GEN 28:15 And behold, I am with you guarding you in every way of which ever you may go, and I will return you to this land; for no way would I abandon you until my doing all as much as I spoke to you.
GEN 28:16 And Jacob awoke from out of his sleep, and said that, The LORD is in this place, but I knew it not.
GEN 28:17 And he feared, and said, How fearful this place. Is not this none other than the house of God, and this the gate of heaven.
GEN 28:18 And Jacob rose up in the morning, and took the stone which he placed there at his head, and set it as a monument, and poured oil upon the top of it.
GEN 28:19 And he called the name of that place House of God; and Lam-luz was the name to the city formerly.
GEN 28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If the LORD God should be with me, and should guard me in this journey which I go, and should give to me bread to eat, and a cloak to put on,
GEN 28:21 and will return me with safety unto the house of my father, and the LORD will be to me for God,
GEN 28:22 that this stone, which I set as a monument, will be to me a house of God, and all what ever you should give to me I will tithe a tenth of it to you.
GEN 29:1 And Jacob lifting his feet went into the land of the east, to Laban, the son of Bethuel the Syrian, and brother of Rebekah, mother of Jacob and Esau.
GEN 29:2 And he saw, and behold, there was a well in the plain. And there were there three flocks of sheep resting near it; for from out of that well they watered the flocks. And there was a great stone upon the mouth of the well.
GEN 29:3 And all the flocks came together there; and they rolled away the stone from the mouth of the well, and they watered the sheep, and restored the stone upon the mouth of the well into its place.
GEN 29:4 And Jacob said to them, Brothers, from what place are you? And they said, We are from Haran.
GEN 29:5 And he said to them, Do you know Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him.
GEN 29:6 And he said to them, Is he in health? And they said, He is in health, and behold, Rachel his daughter comes with the sheep.
GEN 29:7 And Jacob said, There is still much day, for not yet is it the hour for the herds to come together. Having watered the sheep, sending them forth - graze them!
GEN 29:8 And they said, We are not able until the coming together of all the shepherds, and they should roll away the stone from the mouth of the well; and then we shall water the sheep.
GEN 29:9 While he was speaking to them, that behold, Rachel the daughter of Laban comes with the sheep of her father, for she grazed the sheep of her father.
GEN 29:10 And it came to pass, as Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of Laban, brother of his mother, and the sheep of Laban, the brother of his mother, that coming forward Jacob rolled away the stone from the mouth of the well, and watered the sheep of Laban, the brother of his mother.
GEN 29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and yelling with his voice he wept.
GEN 29:12 And he reported to Rachel that he is a brother of her father, and that he is a son of Rebekah. And she ran to report to her father concerning these words.
GEN 29:13 And it came to pass, as Laban heard the name Jacob, the son of his sister, he ran to meet him. And taking hold of him he kissed him, and brought him into his house. And he described to Laban all these matters.
GEN 29:14 And Laban said to him, From out of my bones, and from out of my flesh are you. And he was with him a month of days.
GEN 29:15 And Laban said to Jacob that, For you are my brother, you shall not slave to me without charge. You tell to me what your wage is?
GEN 29:16 And to Laban there were two daughters; the name to the older - Leah, and the name to the younger - Rachel.
GEN 29:17 But the eyes of Leah were weak, but Rachel was good to the sight, and beautiful in the appearance - exceedingly.
GEN 29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel; and he said, I will serve you seven years for Rachel your younger daughter.
GEN 29:19 And Laban said to him, Better for me to give her to you, than for me to give her to another man. You live with me!
GEN 29:20 And Jacob served for Rachel seven years. And they were before him as a few days, because of his love for her.
GEN 29:21 And Jacob said to Laban, Give to me my wife, for the days are fulfilled so as to enter to her!
GEN 29:22 And Laban brought together all the men of the place, and made a wedding.
GEN 29:23 And it became evening; and taking Leah his daughter, he brought her to Jacob, and Jacob entered to her.
GEN 29:24 And Laban gave to Leah his daughter, Zilpah his maidservant.
GEN 29:25 And it happened in the morning, and behold, there was Leah. And Jacob said to Laban, What is this you did to me? Was it not on account of Rachel I served for you? And why did you mislead me?
GEN 29:26 And Laban said, It is not so in our place to give the younger before the elder.
GEN 29:27 You complete then these sevenths, and I will give to you also this woman for the work of which you will work for me yet another seven years.
GEN 29:28 And Jacob did so, and fulfilled these sevenths. And Laban gave to him Rachel his daughter to him as wife.
GEN 29:29 And Laban gave Bilhah the maidservant to his daughter.
GEN 29:30 And he entered to Rachel, and he loved Rachel rather than Leah. And he served to him another seven years.
GEN 29:31 And the LORD seeing that Leah was detested, he opened her womb; but Rachel was sterile.
GEN 29:32 And Leah conceived, and bore a son to Jacob. And she called his name Reuben, saying, For the LORD saw my humiliation, and gave to me a son; now then my husband will love me.
GEN 29:33 And again Leah conceived, and bore a second son to Jacob, and said, For the LORD heard that I am detested, and he gave in addition to me also this one. And she called his name Simeon.
GEN 29:34 And she conceived again and bore a son, and said, In the present time my husband will be by me, for I bore to him three sons. On account of this she called his name Levi.
GEN 29:35 And conceiving again she bore a son, and said, Now yet this I will acknowledge to the LORD. On account of this she called his name Judah. And she stopped bearing.
GEN 30:1 And Rachel saw that she has not borne to Jacob, and Rachel envied her sister, and said to Jacob, Give to me a child! And if not, I will come to an end.
GEN 30:2 And Jacob being enraged with Rachel, said to her, I am not in place of God who deprived you of the fruit of the belly.
GEN 30:3 And Rachel said to Jacob, Behold, my maidservant Bilhah. Enter to her, and she will bear upon my knees, and even I will produce children from her!
GEN 30:4 And she gave Bilhah to him - her maidservant to him as wife. And Jacob entered to her.
GEN 30:5 And Bilhah the maidservant of Rachel conceived, and bore to Jacob a son.
GEN 30:6 And Rachel said, God judged me, and heeded my voice, and gave to me a son through this one. On account of this she called his name Dan.
GEN 30:7 And Bilhah the maidservant of Rachel conceived again, and bore a second son to Jacob.
GEN 30:8 And Rachel said, God aided me, and I was twisted by my sister, and I was able. And she called his name Naphtali.
GEN 30:9 And Leah saw that she stopped bearing, and she took Zilpah her maidservant, and gave her to Jacob as wife.
GEN 30:10 And Zilpah the maidservant of Leah conceived, and bore to Jacob a son.
GEN 30:11 And Leah said, I am in good luck. And she named his name Gad.
GEN 30:12 And Zilpah the maidservant of Leah conceived again, and bore to Jacob a second son.
GEN 30:13 And Leah said, Blessed am I, for the women declare me happy. And she called his name Asher.
GEN 30:14 And Reuben went in the day of the wheat harvest, and found apples of mandrakes in the field, and brought them to Leah his mother. And Rachel said to Leah her sister, Give to me of the mandrakes of your son!
GEN 30:15 And Leah said, Is it not fit to you that you took my husband, shall also you take of the mandrakes of my son? And Rachel said, Not so, let him go to bed with you this night in return for the mandrakes of your son.
GEN 30:16 And Jacob entered from out of the field at evening, and came forth Leah to meet him, and said, You shall enter to me today, for I have hired you in return for the mandrakes of my son. And he went to bed with her that night.
GEN 30:17 And God heeded Leah, and conceiving, she bore a fifth son to Jacob.
GEN 30:18 And Leah said, God gave to me my wage, because of which I gave my maidservant to my husband. And she called his name Issachar, which is Wage.
GEN 30:19 And Leah conceived again, and bore a sixth son to Jacob.
GEN 30:20 And Leah said, God has presented to me a good gift in the present time; my husband will select me for having borne to him six sons. And she called his name Zebulun.
GEN 30:21 And after this she bore a daughter, and she called her name Dinah.
GEN 30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God heeded her, and opened her womb.
GEN 30:23 And conceiving, she bore to Jacob a son. And Rachel said, God removed from me the scorn.
GEN 30:24 And she called his name Joseph, saying, God added to me another son!
GEN 30:25 And it came to pass when Rachel bore Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, Send me that I may go forth unto my place, and unto my land!
GEN 30:26 Give to me my wives and my children for whom I have served to you, that I might go forth! for you know the servitude which I have served to you.
GEN 30:27 And Laban said to him, If I found favor before you, could I foretell even that God blessed me in your entrance.
GEN 30:28 You draw your wage from me, and I will give it!
GEN 30:29 And Jacob said to him, You know in what I served to you, and how much of your cattle was with me.
GEN 30:30 For there was little - as much as was to you before me, and it was grown into a multitude; and the LORD blessed you by my foot. Now then, when shall I also produce for myself a house?
GEN 30:31 And Laban said to him, What shall I give to you? And Jacob said to him, You shall not give to me anything. If you should do for me this word, again I will tend your flocks and guard them.
GEN 30:32 Let all your flocks go by today, and you part from there every gray sheep among the rams, and all white-mixed and speckled among the goats! It will be to me a wage.
GEN 30:33 And my righteousness will take heed to me in the next day; for my wage is before you - all which ever might not be speckled and white-mixed among the goats, and gray among the rams, will be as stolen by me.
GEN 30:34 And Laban said to him, Let it be according to your word!
GEN 30:35 And he drew apart in that day of the speckled he-goats, and of the white-mixed, and all the goats, the speckled and the white-mixed, and all gray, which was among the rams. And he gave by the hand of his sons.
GEN 30:36 And he left a journey of three days between them and between Jacob. And Jacob tended the flocks of Laban - the ones left behind.
GEN 30:37 And Jacob took to himself a rod of green poplar, and of walnut, and of the plane tree. And Jacob peeled them into white peels, tearing away the green. And there appeared upon the rods the white which he peeled - varying.
GEN 30:38 And he placed the rods, (which he peeled at the watering troughs of the channels of the water, that whenever the flocks came to drink in front of the rods of those having come to drink,) so that they should stimulate the flocks at the rods.
GEN 30:39 And the flocks bore white-mixed, and colored, and ashen speckled.
GEN 30:40 And Jacob drew apart the lambs. And he set a ram white-mixed before the sheep, and every colored one among the lambs. And he parted to himself flocks for himself, and did not mix them into the flocks of Laban.
GEN 30:41 And it came to pass in the time in which the flocks stimulated in the womb - Jacob taking them put the rods before the flocks at the watering troughs for the purpose of stimulating them by the rods.
GEN 30:42 But whenever the flocks bore, he did not place them. And the unmarked became Laban's, and the marked Jacob's.
GEN 30:43 And the man became rich exceedingly, exceedingly. And there was to him much cattle, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and donkeys.
GEN 31:1 And Jacob heard the utterances of the sons of Laban, saying, Jacob has taken all the things of our father. And from out of the things of our father he has produced all this glory.
GEN 31:2 And Jacob saw the face of Laban, and behold, he was not for him as yesterday, and the third day before.
GEN 31:3 And the LORD said to Jacob, Return to the land of your father, and to your family, and I will be with you!
GEN 31:4 And Jacob sending, called Leah and Rachel to the plain where the flocks were.
GEN 31:5 And he said to them, I see the face of your father, that it is not towards me as yesterday, and the third day before. But the God of my father was with me.
GEN 31:6 But also you yourselves know that in all my strength I have served to your father.
GEN 31:7 But your father cheated me, and bartered my wage for the ten lambs. And the God of my father gave not to him power to do evil against me.
GEN 31:8 If thus he should have said, The colored will be your wage, then all the flocks would bear colored. And if he should have said, The white will be your wage, then all the flocks would bear white.
GEN 31:9 And God removed all the herds of your father, and gave them to me.
GEN 31:10 And it came to pass when the flocks were stimulated, conceiving in the womb, that I saw them with my eyes in sleep. And behold, the he-goats and the rams ascended upon the flocks, even upon the she-goats white-mixed and colored and ashen speckled.
GEN 31:11 And the angel of God said to me during sleep, Jacob. And I said, What is it?
GEN 31:12 And he said, Look up with your eyes, and see the he-goats and the rams ascending upon the flocks, even upon the she-goats white-mixed and colored and ashen speckled! For I have seen as much as Laban does to you.
GEN 31:13 I am God, the one appearing to you in the place of God, of which you anointed to me there a monument, and vowed to me there a vow. Now then, rise up and go forth from out of this land, and go forth into the land of your birth!
GEN 31:14 And answering, Rachel and Leah said to him, Is there not to us still a portion or inheritance in the house of our father?
GEN 31:15 Are we not considered as the aliens to him? For he has sold us, and he ate up devouring our silver.
GEN 31:16 All the riches and the glory which the God of our father removed will be ours, and our children's. Now then, as much as God has said to you, you do!
GEN 31:17 And Jacob rising up, took his wives and his children upon the camels.
GEN 31:18 And he took away all his possessions, and all his belongings which he procured in Mesopotamia, and all his things to go forth to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.
GEN 31:19 And Laban set out to shear his flocks, and Rachel stole the idols of her father.
GEN 31:20 And Jacob hid the fact from Laban the Syrian, so as not to announce to him that he is running away.
GEN 31:21 And he ran away, he, and all of his. And he passed over the river, and advanced unto the mountain of Gilead.
GEN 31:22 And it was announced to Laban the Syrian on the third day that Jacob ran away.
GEN 31:23 And taking all the ones of his brothers with himself, he pursued after him a seven days journey, and overtook him in the mountain of Gilead.
GEN 31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian during sleep in the night, and said to him, Guard, lest at any time you should speak evil against Jacob!
GEN 31:25 And Laban overtook Jacob. And Jacob pitched his tent in the mountain, and Laban stationed his brothers in the mountain of Gilead.
GEN 31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What did you do? Why did you secretly run away, and ransacked me, and took away my daughters as captives taken by sword?
GEN 31:27 For if you announced to me, I would have sent out even you with gladness, and with music, and tambourines, and harps.
GEN 31:28 And am I not worthy to kiss my children, and my daughters? Now then you acted unwisely.
GEN 31:29 And now my hand is strong to do evil against you, but the God of your father yesterday said to me, saying, Guard yourself, lest at any time you should speak evil against Jacob!
GEN 31:30 Now then, go! For with desire you desired to go forth unto the house of your father; why did you steal my gods?
GEN 31:31 And answering Jacob said to Laban, For I said, Lest at any time you should remove your daughters from me, and all my things.
GEN 31:32 And Jacob said, By whomsoever you should find your gods, he shall not live before our brothers. Recognize what is from me of the things of yours, and take them! And he did not recognize among what was his - not one thing. But Jacob knew not that Rachel his wife stole them.
GEN 31:33 And entering, Laban searched in the house of Leah, and he did not find. And he came forth from out of the house of Leah, and he searched the house of Jacob, and in the house of the two maidservants, and he did not find. And he entered also into the house of Rachel.
GEN 31:34 And Rachel took the idols, and put them in the packsaddles of the camel, and sat on them.
GEN 31:35 And she said to her father, Do not bear heavily, O master, I shall not be able to rise up before you, for the things according to the custom of women is to me. And Laban searched in the entire house, and did not find the idols.
GEN 31:36 And Jacob was provoked to anger, and he quarreled with Laban. And responding Jacob said to Laban, What is my offence, and what is my sin that you pursued after me,
GEN 31:37 and that you searched all the items of my house? What did you find from all the items of your house? Put here before your brothers and my brothers, and let them reprove between the two of us!
GEN 31:38 These twenty years I am with you; your flocks and your goats were not barren, and the rams of your flocks I did not eat.
GEN 31:39 That taken by wild beasts I have not brought to you; I paid for them by myself, even thefts by day, and thefts by night.
GEN 31:40 I was burning with the sweltering heat by day, and with the icy coldness of the night. And my sleep departed from my eyes.
GEN 31:41 These twenty years I am in your residence. I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years among your sheep, and you cheated my wage by ten ewe-lambs.
GEN 31:42 Unless the God of my father Abraham, and the fear of Isaac was with me, now then would you have sent me empty. My humiliation and the toil of my hands God saw, and he reproved you yesterday.
GEN 31:43 And responding, Laban said to Jacob, The daughters of my daughters, and the sons of my sons, and the cattle of my cattle, and all as much as you see is mine, and the things of my daughters. What shall I do with these women today, or the children of them whom they bore?
GEN 31:44 Now then, come, we should ordain a covenant, I and you, and it will be a testimony between me and you.
GEN 31:45 And Jacob taking a stone, established it as a monument;
GEN 31:46 And Jacob said to his brothers, Collect together stones! And they collected together stones, and made a hill, and ate there upon the hill.
GEN 31:47 And Laban called it, Hill of the Witness, but Jacob called it, Hill is Witness.
GEN 31:48 And Laban said, this hill witnesses between me and you today. Because of this the name of the place was called, Hill Witnesses.
GEN 31:49 And the vision which he said, May God look between me and you - is that we will leave the other from the other.
GEN 31:50 If you shall humble my daughters, if you should take wives over my daughters, you see that no one is with us seeing - God is witness between me and between you.
GEN 31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, Behold, this hill and the monument which I stood between me and you;
GEN 31:52 this hill witnesses, and the monument which I stood - it witnesses. For if I pass over, I to you, neither shall you pass over to me beyond this hill and this monument, for evil.
GEN 31:53 The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, judges between us.
GEN 31:54 And Jacob swore by an oath according to the fear of his father Isaac. And he sacrificed a sacrifice offering in the mountain, and called his brothers. And they ate and drank, and went to sleep in the mountain.
GEN 31:55 And Laban rising up in the morning, kissed the sons and daughers of his, and blessed them. And Laban returned, and went forth to his place.
GEN 32:1 And Jacob went forth into his own way. And having looked up, he saw the camp of God encamped. And the angels of God met with him.
GEN 32:2 And Jacob said, when he saw them, This is the camp of God. And he called the name of that place Camps.
GEN 32:3 And Jacob sent messengers in front of him to Esau his brother into the land of Seir, into the region of Edom.
GEN 32:4 And he gave charge to them, saying, Thus you shall say to my master Esau, Thus says your servant Jacob, I sojourned with Laban, and passed time until the present.
GEN 32:5 And there came to me oxen, and donkeys, and sheep, and menservants, and maidservants; and I sent to announce to my master Esau, that your servant might find favor before you.
GEN 32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, And behold, he is coming to meet you, and four hundred men with him.
GEN 32:7 And Jacob feared exceedingly and was perplexed. And he divided the people with himself, and the oxen, and the sheep, into two camps.
GEN 32:8 And Jacob said, If Esau should come into one camp, and should smite it, the second camp will be for delivering.
GEN 32:9 And Jacob said, The God of my father Abraham, and the God of my father Isaac, O LORD, the one saying to me, Run to the land of your birth, and I will do good to you!
GEN 32:10 It is fit to me for all righteousness, and of all truth, of which you did to your servant; for with this my rod I passed over this Jordan, and now I exist in two camps.
GEN 32:11 Rescue me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau! For I fear him, lest coming he should strike me, and the mother with children.
GEN 32:12 But you, you said, I will do you good, and I will establish your seed as the sand of the sea, which shall not be counted by the multitude.
GEN 32:13 And he went to sleep there that night; and took gifts of which he brought, and sent to Esau his brother;
GEN 32:14 goats - two hundred; he-goats - twenty; sheep - two hundred; rams - twenty;
GEN 32:15 camels nursing and their offspring - thirty; oxen - forty; bulls - ten; donkeys - twenty; and foals - ten.
GEN 32:16 And he gave them by hand to his servants - a flock by itself alone. And he said to his servants, You go forth in front of me, and make a space between flock and flock.
GEN 32:17 And he gave charge to the first, saying, If Esau my brother should meet you, and he should ask you, saying, Who are you? and, Where might you go? and, Who are these going before you?
GEN 32:18 You shall say, Your servant Jacob has sent gifts to my master Esau. And behold, he is behind us.
GEN 32:19 And he gave charge to the first, and to the second, and to the third, and to all the ones going before behind these flocks, saying, According to this saying you speak to Esau when you find him!
GEN 32:20 And you shall say, Behold, your servant Jacob comes after us. For he said, I will appease his face by the gifts going before him; and after this I will see his countenance; for perhaps he will favorably receive my person.
GEN 32:21 And the gifts went before according to his front. And he went to sleep that night in the camp.
GEN 32:22 And rising that night, he took the two wives, and the two maidservants, and the eleven children of his, and passed over the ford of the Jabbok.
GEN 32:23 And he took them, and passed over the rushing stream, and caused to pass over all the ones of his.
GEN 32:24 And Jacob was left behind alone. And a man wrestled with him until morning.
GEN 32:25 And he saw that he was not able to prevail against him; and he touched the wide part of his thigh, and paralyzed the wide part of the thigh of Jacob in his wrestling with him.
GEN 32:26 And he said to him, You send me away, for the dawn ascended! And he said, No way will I send you away if you should not bless me.
GEN 32:27 And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob.
GEN 32:28 And he said to him, your name shall not any longer be called Jacob, but Israel will be your name; for you grew in strength against God, and against mighty men.
GEN 32:29 And Jacob asked, and said, Announce to me your name! And he said, Why is this you ask my name, which is wonderful? And he blessed him there.
GEN 32:30 And Jacob called the name of that place, Sight of God. For I saw God face to face, and my life was preserved.
GEN 32:31 And the sun arose to him when he went by the form of God, but he was limping in his thigh.
GEN 32:32 Because of this in no way do the sons of Israel eat the nerve by which he was paralyzed, which is upon the wide part of the thigh, until this day. For he touched the wide part of the thigh of Jacob, of the nerve, in which he was paralyzed.
GEN 33:1 And Jacob looking up saw. And behold, Esau his brother was coming, and four hundred men with him. And Jacob divided the servants unto Leah and unto Rachel, and the two maidservants.
GEN 33:2 And he made the two maidservants and their sons go in first, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph last.
GEN 33:3 But he went forth in front of them, and did obeisance on the ground seven times, while approaching to his brother.
GEN 33:4 And Esau ran up to meet him. And taking hold of him, he kissed him. And he fell upon his neck, and he kissed him, and they both wept.
GEN 33:5 And Esau looking up, saw the women and the children; and said, What are these to you? And he said, The children which God showed mercy on your servant.
GEN 33:6 And the maidservants and their children drew near, and did obeisance.
GEN 33:7 And Leah drew near and her children, and they did obeisance. And after this Rachel and Joseph drew near, and they did obeisance.
GEN 33:8 And he said, What are these to you, all these camps which I have met? And he said, that your servant should find favor before you, O master.
GEN 33:9 And Esau said, There is to me much, O brother, let your things be yours!
GEN 33:10 And Jacob said, If I found favor before you, take the gifts by my hands! Because of this - I saw your face, as if one may have seen the face of God, and you shall think well of me.
GEN 33:11 Take the things of my blessing, which I brought to you, for God showed mercy on me, and there is to me all things! And he forced him, and he took.
GEN 33:12 And he said, Departing we will go unto straight.
GEN 33:13 And he said to him, My master knows that the children are tender, and the sheep and the oxen are giving birth to me. If then I should drive them one more day all the cattle will die.
GEN 33:14 Let my master go forth in front of his servant, and I shall gain strength in the way according to the ease of the trek before me, and according to the foot of the youngsters, until my coming to my master in Seir!
GEN 33:15 And Esau said, I will leave behind with you some of the people with me. And he said, Why this? It is enough that I found favor before you, O master.
GEN 33:16 And Esau returned in that day unto his journey to Seir.
GEN 33:17 And Jacob departed to Tents. And he made himself there a residence, and made tented shelters for his cattle. On account of this they call the name of that place Tents.
GEN 33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he returned back from Mesopotamia Syria; and he camped before the face of the city.
GEN 33:19 And he acquired the portion of the field which sat there by his tent, from Hamor father of Shechem, for a hundred lambs.
GEN 33:20 And he set up there an altar, and called upon the God of Israel.
GEN 34:1 And went forth Dinah, the daughter whom Leah bore to Jacob, to study the daughters of the native inhabitants.
GEN 34:2 And Shechem beheld her, the son of Hamor the Hivite, the ruler of the land. And taking her, he went to bed with her, and humbled her.
GEN 34:3 And he took heed to the soul of Dinah the daughter of Jacob. And he loved the virgin, and spoke concerning the thought of her virgin state.
GEN 34:4 And Shechem said to Hamor his father, saying, Take to me this maidservant for a wife.
GEN 34:5 And Jacob heard that the son of Hamor defiled Dinah his daughter. But his sons were with his cattle in the plain; and Jacob remained silent until they came.
GEN 34:6 And came forth Hamor the father of Shechem to Jacob to speak to him.
GEN 34:7 And the sons of Jacob came from the plain. And as they heard the men were vexed, and it was distressing to them exceedingly, for he did an indecent act in Israel by going to bed with the daughter of Jacob - and not thus shall it be.
GEN 34:8 And Hamor spoke to them, saying, Shechem my son prefers your daughter in his soul. Give her then to him as wife!
GEN 34:9 And be allied by marriage to us! You give us your daughters, and you take our daughters for your sons!
GEN 34:10 And dwell with us! And the land - behold, it is spacious before you. You dwell and do trade in it, and acquire possessions in it!
GEN 34:11 And Shechem said to her father, and to her brothers, I want to find favor before you, and what ever you should have said we will give.
GEN 34:12 You multiply the dowry exceedingly, and I will give in so far as whatever you should have said to me! And you shall give to me this child as wife.
GEN 34:13 And the sons of Jacob responded to Shechem and Hamor his father with treachery. And they spoke to them, for they defiled Dinah their sister.
GEN 34:14 And Simeon and Levi the brothers of Dinah said to them, We shall not be able to do this matter, to give our sister to a man who has a foreskin, for it is scorn to us.
GEN 34:15 Only in this we will be like you, and dwell among you; if you should become as us, and we you, in the circumcision of every male of yours.
GEN 34:16 And we will give our daughters to you, and from your daughters we will take to ourselves wives; and we will live by you, and we will be one race.
GEN 34:17 But if you should not listen to us, of the being circumcised, taking our daughter we shall go forth.
GEN 34:18 And the words were pleasing before Hamor, and before Shechem the son of Hamor.
GEN 34:19 And the young man did not pass time to do this word, for he clung to the daughter of Jacob. And he was most honorable of all of the ones in the house of his father.
GEN 34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came to the gate of their city, and spoke to the men of their city, saying,
GEN 34:21 These men are peaceable with us. Let them live upon the land and trade in it! And the land, behold, it is spacious before them. We shall take to ourselves wives of their daughters, and we shall give our daughters to them.
GEN 34:22 In this only will the men be like us, to dwell with us, so as to be one people - in every male of us being circumcised, as also they have been circumcised.
GEN 34:23 And their cattle, and the four-footed animals, and their possessions - will they not be ours? Only in this should we be like them, and they will live with us.
GEN 34:24 And they listened to Hamor and Shechem his son. And all the ones going forth at the gate of their city even were circumcised in the flesh of their foreskin - every male.
GEN 34:25 And it came to pass in the third day, when they were in misery, the two sons of Jacob Simeon and Levi brothers of Dinah each taking his sword, then entered to the city safely, and killed every male.
GEN 34:26 Also Hamor and Shechem his son they killed by the mouth of the sword, and took Dinah from the house of Shechem, and went forth.
GEN 34:27 And the sons of Jacob entered unto the wounded, and plundered the city, in which Dinah their sister was defiled.
GEN 34:28 And their sheep, and their oxen, and their donkeys, as much as was in the city, and as much as was in the plain, they took.
GEN 34:29 And all their persons, and all their belongings, and their women they captured. And they plundered as much as was in the city, and as much as was in the houses.
GEN 34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have made me detested so as for me to be wicked to all the ones dwelling the land, among both the Canaanites and among the Perizzites; and I am very few in number, and gathering against me, they shall cut me down. And I shall be obliterated, I and my house.
GEN 34:31 And they said, But as a harlot they treated our sister.
GEN 35:1 And God said to Jacob, Rising up, ascend unto the place Beth-el, and live there; and make there an altar to the God appearing to you in the running away from the face of Esau your brother!
GEN 35:2 And Jacob said to his house, and to all the ones with him, Take away the alien gods from your midst, and cleanse, and change your robes!
GEN 35:3 And rising up, let us ascend unto Beth-el; and let us make there an altar to the God taking heed of me in a day of affliction, who was with me, and preserved me in the way which I went!
GEN 35:4 And they gave to Jacob the alien gods which were in their hands, and the ear-rings in their ears. And Jacob hid them under the terebinth tree in Shechem. And he destroyed them unto today's day.
GEN 35:5 And Israel lifted away from Shechem. And there was a fear of God upon the cities round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Israel.
GEN 35:6 And Jacob came into Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, which is Beth-el - he and all the people which was with him.
GEN 35:7 And he built there an altar, and called the name of the place Beth-el; for there God appeared to him, in his running away from the face of Esau his brother.
GEN 35:8 And Deborah the nurse of Rebekah died. And they entombed her in lower Beth-el, under the acorn tree. And Jacob called the name of it Acorn tree of Mourning.
GEN 35:9 And God appeared to Jacob again in Luz, when he came from out of Mesopotamia of Syria. And God blessed him.
GEN 35:10 And God said to him, Your name shall not be called any longer Jacob, but Israel will be your name. And he called his name Israel.
GEN 35:11 And God said to him, I am your God. Grow and multiply! Nations and gatherings of nations will be from you, and kings shall come forth from your loin.
GEN 35:12 And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, I give it to you; and to your seed after you I shall give this land.
GEN 35:13 And God ascended from him, from the place of which he spoke with him.
GEN 35:14 And Jacob set up a monument in the place in which God spoke with him - a stone monument. And he offered upon it a libation, and poured upon it olive oil.
GEN 35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place in which God spoke with him there, Beth-el.
GEN 35:16 And Jacob departed from Beth-el, and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Gader. And it came to pass, when he approached Chabratha, to come into Ephrath, Rachel bore. And in the giving birth she suffered birth pangs.
GEN 35:17 And it came to pass in her harshly bearing, the midwife said to her, Be of courage! for also this is a son to you.
GEN 35:18 And it came to pass in her letting go the soul, for she was dying, she called his name Son of my Grief; but the father called his name, Benjamin.
GEN 35:19 And Rachel died, and was entombed in the way of Ephrath - this is Beth-lehem.
GEN 35:20 And Jacob set up a monument for her memorial. This is the monument upon the tomb of Rachel until this day.
GEN 35:21 And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, Reuben went and bedded with Bilhah the concubine of his father Jacob. And Israel heard, and it appeared wicked before him.
GEN 35:22 And the sons of Jacob were twelve.
GEN 35:23 The sons of Leah - Reuben the first-born of Jacob, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun.
GEN 35:24 And the sons of Rachel - Joseph and Benjamin.
GEN 35:25 And the sons of Bilhah, the maidservant of Rachel - Dan and Naphtali.
GEN 35:26 And the sons of Zilpah, the maidservant of Leah - Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob born to him in Mesopotamia of Syria.
GEN 35:27 And Jacob came to Isaac his father in Mamre, in a city of the plain - this is Hebron, in the land of Canaan, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
GEN 35:28 And were the days of Isaac which he lived - a hundred eighty years.
GEN 35:29 And failing, Isaac died. And he was added to his family, older and full of days. And Esau and Jacob his two sons entombed him.
GEN 36:1 And these are the generations of Esau - he is Edom.
GEN 36:2 And Esau took wives to himself from the daughters of the Canaanites - Adah, daughter of Elon the Hittite; and Aholibamah, daughter of Anah the son of Zibeon the Hivite;
GEN 36:3 and Bashemath, daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebajoth.
GEN 36:4 And Adah bore to him Eliphaz; and Bashemath bore Reuel.
GEN 36:5 And Aholibamah bore Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau born to him in the land of Canaan.
GEN 36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and all his possessions, and all the cattle, and all as much as he acquired, and all as much as he procured in the land of Canaan. And Esau went from the land of Canaan, from the face of Jacob his brother.
GEN 36:7 For it was that their possessions were many to live together, and the land of their sojourning was not able to bear them because of the multitude of their possessions.
GEN 36:8 And Esau dwelt in the mountain of Seir. Esau - he is Edom.
GEN 36:9 And these are the generations of Esau father of Edom in the mountain of Seir.
GEN 36:10 And these were the names of the sons of Esau - Eliphaz son of Adah, wife of Esau, and Reuel son of Bashemath wife of Esau.
GEN 36:11 And born to Eliphaz - sons Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz.
GEN 36:12 And Timna was a concubine of Eliphaz the son of Esau. And she bore to Eliphaz Amalek. These were the sons of Adah wife of Esau.
GEN 36:13 And these were the sons of Reuel - Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the sons of Bashemath wife of Esau.
GEN 36:14 And these were the sons of Aholibamah, daughter of Anah, of the son of Zibeon wife of Esau; and she bore to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
GEN 36:15 These were the princes, sons of Esau. The sons of Eliphaz first-born of Esau - prince Teman, prince Omar, prince Zepho, prince Kenaz,
GEN 36:16 prince Korah, prince Gatam, prince Amalek. These were the princes of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; and these were the sons of Adah.
GEN 36:17 And these were the sons of Reuel, son of Esau - prince Nahath, prince Zerah, prince Shammah, prince Mizzah. These were the princes of Reuel in the land of Edom. These were the sons of Bashemath wife of Esau.
GEN 36:18 And these were the sons of Aholibamah wife of Esau - prince Jeush, prince Jaalam, prince Korah. These were the princes of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, wife of Esau.
GEN 36:19 These were the sons of Esau. And these were their princes. These are sons of Edom.
GEN 36:20 And these were the sons of Seir the Horite, of the one dwelling the land - Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
GEN 36:21 and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. These were the princes of the Horite, of the son of Seir, in the land of Edom.
GEN 36:22 And were born sons of Lotan - Hori and Hemam. And the sister of Lotan - Timna.
GEN 36:23 And these were the sons of Shobal - Golam, and Manahath, and Ebal, and Shepho, and Onam.
GEN 36:24 And these were the sons of Zibeon - Ajah and Anah; this Anah is who found the mules in the wilderness when he was feeding the beasts of burden of Zibeon his father.
GEN 36:25 And these were the sons of Anah - Dishon, and Aholibamah was daughter of Anah.
GEN 36:26 And these were the sons of Dishon - Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
GEN 36:27 And these were the sons of Ezer - Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.
GEN 36:28 And these were the sons of Dishan - Uz and Aran.
GEN 36:29 And these were the princes of the Horites - prince Lotan, prince Shobal, prince Zibeon, prince Anah,
GEN 36:30 prince Dishon, prince Ezer, prince Dishan. These were the princes of Hori, in their governing in the land of Edom.
GEN 36:31 And these were the kings reigning in the land of Edom, before the reigning of a king in Israel.
GEN 36:32 And Balak son of Beor reigned in Edom. And the name of his city - Dinhabah.
GEN 36:33 And Balak died, and Jobab reigned instead of him, son of Zerah, from Bozrah.
GEN 36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham reigned instead of him, from the land of Temani.
GEN 36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad son of Bedad reigned instead of him, the one cutting off Midian in the plain of Moab. And the name of his city - Getham.
GEN 36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah from Masrekah reigned instead of him.
GEN 36:37 And Samlah died, and Saul reigned instead of him, from Rehoboth of the place by the river.
GEN 36:38 And Saul died, and Baal-hanan son of Achbor reigned instead of him.
GEN 36:39 And Baal-hanan son of Achbor died, and Hadar son of Barad reigned instead of him; and the name of his city was Phogor; and the name to his wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, son of Mezahab.
GEN 36:40 These are the names of the princes of Esau, in their tribes, according to their place, in their regions, and in their nations - prince Timnah, prince Alvah, prince Jetheth,
GEN 36:41 prince Aholibamah, prince Elah, prince Pinon,
GEN 36:42 prince Kenaz, prince Teman, prince Mibzar,
GEN 36:43 prince Magdiel, prince Zaphoi. These are the princes of Edom, in the buildings in the land of their property. This is Esau father of Edom.
GEN 37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the land of which his father sojourned - in the land of Canaan.
GEN 37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. And Joseph was ten and seven years old tending the sheep of his father with his brothers, being young among the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, the wives of his father. And they brought against Joseph a bad fault to Israel their father.
GEN 37:3 But Jacob loved Joseph beyond all his sons, for he was to him the son of old age. And he made for him a colored garment.
GEN 37:4 And his brothers seeing that the father was fond of him over all of his sons, they detested him, and were not able to speak to him - not one thing peaceable.
GEN 37:5 And Joseph dreaming a dream, reported it to his brothers.
GEN 37:6 And he said to them, Hear this dream which I dreamed!
GEN 37:7 I imagined you all were binding sheaves in the midst in the plain. And my sheaf rose up, and it was straight up. And your sheaves moving around did obeisance to my sheaf.
GEN 37:8 And his brothers said to him, Do you mean in reigning you will reign over us? or in dominating you will dominate us? And they added still to detest him because of his dreams, and because of his words.
GEN 37:9 And he saw another dream, and described it to his father, and to his brothers. And he said, Behold, I dreamed another dream; as if the sun, and the moon, and eleven stars did obeisance to me.
GEN 37:10 And his father reproached him, and said to him, What is this dream which you dreamed? Is it so indeed in having come I will come also, and your mother, and your brothers, to do obeisance to you upon the ground?
GEN 37:11 And his brothers envied him; but his father kept the saying.
GEN 37:12 And his brothers went to graze the sheep of their father in Shechem.
GEN 37:13 And Israel said to Joseph, Did not your brothers tend in Shechem? Come, I will send you to them. And he said to him, Behold, I am ready.
GEN 37:14 And Israel said to him, In going, see if your brothers are in health, and the sheep; and announce it to me! And he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came into Shechem.
GEN 37:15 And a man found him wandering in the plain. And the man asked him, saying, What do you seek?
GEN 37:16 And he said, I seek my brothers; report to me where they graze!
GEN 37:17 And the man said to him, They have departed from here; for I heard them saying, Let us go unto Dothan. And Joseph went after his brothers, and found them in Dothan.
GEN 37:18 And they spied him far off before his approaching to them. And they acted wickedly to kill him.
GEN 37:19 And said each to his brother, Behold, that dreamer comes.
GEN 37:20 Now then, come, we should kill him, and toss him into one of the wells! And we shall say, A ferocious wild beast devoured him. And we shall see what will be of his dreams.
GEN 37:21 And Reuben hearing, rescued him from out of their hands. And he said, Do not strike him as far as his life.
GEN 37:22 And Reuben said to them, You should not shed blood, but put him into one of these wells in the wilderness, and bear not a hand against him; that he might rescue him from out of their hands, and that he might give him to his father.
GEN 37:23 And it came to pass when Joseph came to his brothers, they took the colored garment off Joseph, the one around him.
GEN 37:24 And taking him, they tossed him into the well. But the well was empty - it did not have water.
GEN 37:25 And they sat to eat bread. And looking up with the eyes they saw. And behold, journeying Ishmaelites were coming from Gilead, and their camels full of incenses, and balm, and balsam. And they were going, leading down into Egypt.
GEN 37:26 And Judah said to his brothers, What profit if we should kill our brother, and we should hide his blood?
GEN 37:27 Come, let us give him to these Ishmaelites! And the hands of ours, let them not be upon him, for he is our brother, and he is our flesh! And his brothers hearkened.
GEN 37:28 And the men came near, the Midianite merchants. And they drew out and hauled Joseph from out of the well. And the Ishmaelites rendered for Joseph twenty pieces of gold. And they led Joseph into Egypt.
GEN 37:29 And Reuben returned upon the well, and did not see Joseph in the well; and he tore his clothes.
GEN 37:30 And he turned towards his brothers, and said, The boy is not, and I, where shall I go yet?
GEN 37:31 And taking the garment of Joseph, they slew a kid of the goats, and tainted the garment in the blood.
GEN 37:32 And they sent the colored garment, and carried it to their father, and said, This we found; do you recognize if the garment is of your son or not?
GEN 37:33 And he recognized it, and said, It is the garment of my son; a ferocious wild beast devoured him; a wild beast seized Joseph.
GEN 37:34 And Jacob tore his clothes, and placed sackcloth upon his loin, and mourned for his son many days.
GEN 37:35 And all his sons and daughters came together. And they came to comfort him, and he wanted not to be comforted, saying that, I will go down to my son in mourning into Hades. And his father wept for him.
GEN 37:36 And the Midianites gave Joseph into Egypt to Potiphar the castrato of Pharaoh, the chief guard.
GEN 38:1 And it came to pass in that time, Judah went from his brothers, and arrived unto before a certain man - an Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
GEN 38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a Canaanite man, whose name was Shuah. And he took her, and entered to her.
GEN 38:3 And conceiving she bore a son, and called his name Er.
GEN 38:4 And conceiving she bore a son still again, and called his name Onan.
GEN 38:5 And adding she bore a son, and called his name Shelah. And she was in Chezib when she bore them.
GEN 38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his first-born, whose name was Tamar.
GEN 38:7 And it came to pass, Er the first-born of Judah, was wicked before the LORD; and God killed him.
GEN 38:8 And Judah said to Onan, Enter to the wife of your brother, and ally to her by marriage, and raise up seed to your brother!
GEN 38:9 And Onan knowing that the seed will not be his; that it came to pass, whenever he entered to his brother's wife, he discharged upon the ground, to not give seed to his brother.
GEN 38:10 And it appeared wicked before God that he did this; and he put to death also this one.
GEN 38:11 And Judah said to Tamar his daughter-in-law, You sit as a widow in the house of your father until Shelah my son becomes older! For he said, Lest at any time this one also should die as also his brothers. And Tamar going forth settled in the house of her father.
GEN 38:12 And the days multiplied, and Shuah the wife of Judah died. And being comforted, Judah ascended to the shearing of his sheep, he, and Hirah his shepherd the Adullamite, unto Timnath.
GEN 38:13 And it was reported to Tamar his daughter-in-law, saying, Behold, your father-in-law ascends to Timnath to shear his sheep.
GEN 38:14 And removing the garments of the widowhood from herself, she put around a lightweight covering, and bedecked herself, and sat by the gates of Enaim, which is in the byway of Timnath; for she knew that Shelah was older, but he did not give her to him as wife.
GEN 38:15 And Judah seeing her, assumed her to be a harlot, for she covered up her face, and he recognized her not.
GEN 38:16 And he turned aside to her in the way. And he said to her, Allow me to enter to you, for he did not know that she is his daughter-in-law. And she said, What will you give to me, if you should enter to me?
GEN 38:17 And he said, I will send to you a kid of the goats from out of my flocks. And she said, You should give a deposit until you send it.
GEN 38:18 And he said, What deposit shall I give to you? And she said, Your ring, and the pendant, and the rod in your hand. And he gave them to her, and entered to her. And she conceived in the womb from him.
GEN 38:19 And rising up she went forth. And she removed her lightweight garment from herself, and put on the garments of her widowhood.
GEN 38:20 And Judah sent the kid of the goats by the hand of his shepherd the Adullamite, to deliver by him to the woman the deposit. And he did not find her.
GEN 38:21 And he asked the men of the place, Where is the harlot being in Enaim upon the way? And they said, There was not a harlot here.
GEN 38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I did not find her; and the men from the place, say, There was no harlot here.
GEN 38:23 And Judah said, Let her have them, but lest at any time we should be ridiculed, I indeed sent this kid, but you have not found her.
GEN 38:24 And it came to pass after three months, it was announced to Judah, saying, Tamar your daughter-in-law fornicated; and behold, she has one in the womb out of harlotry. And Judah said, Lead her out, and let her be incinerated!
GEN 38:25 And while leading her, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, From the man of whom these things are, I have one in the womb. And she said, Recognize whose ring and pendant and rod these are!
GEN 38:26 And Judah realized, and said, Tamar has done justice rather than I; because I did not give her Shelah my son. And he did not add any longer to know her.
GEN 38:27 And it came to pass when she was bearing, that thus there were twins in her womb.
GEN 38:28 And it came to pass in her bearing, the one put forth first the hand. And taking it, the midwife tied upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This one will come forth prior.
GEN 38:29 And as he retracted the hand, straightway came forth his brother. And she said, Why was the barrier cut through because of you? And she called his name, Pharez.
GEN 38:30 And after this came forth his brother, of which was upon his hand the scarlet thread. And she called his name Zarah.
GEN 39:1 And Joseph was carried down into Egypt. And Potiphar acquired him, the eunuch of Pharaoh, the chief guard, an Egyptian man, from out of the hands of the Ishmaelites that led him there.
GEN 39:2 And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a man succeeding in things. And he was in the house by his master the Egyptian.
GEN 39:3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and whatever as much as he should do the LORD prospered the way by his hands.
GEN 39:4 And Joseph found favor before his master, and was well-pleasing to him. And he placed him over his house; and all as much as was his he gave through the hand of Joseph.
GEN 39:5 And it came to pass after the placing him over his house, and over all as much as was his, that the LORD blessed the house of the Egyptian on account of Joseph; and he became a blessing for his master in all his possessions in the house, and in his field.
GEN 39:6 And he committed to care all as much as was his into the hand of Joseph; and he knew not the things of his own - not one thing, except of the bread which he ate. And Joseph was good to the sight, and handsome in the appearance - exceedingly.
GEN 39:7 And it happened after these things, and the wife of his master put her eyes upon Joseph. And she said, Come to bed with me!
GEN 39:8 But he was not willing. And he said to the wife of his master, If my master knows not, on account of me, one thing in his house, and all as much as is his which he gave into my hands,
GEN 39:9 and there does not exist in this house one thing outside of me knowing, nor is one thing secretly removed from me, besides you, on account of you being his wife, then how should I do this wicked thing, and sin before God?
GEN 39:10 And when she spoke to Joseph day by day, and he did not obey her to sleep with her, to be intimate with her,
GEN 39:11 that it came to pass on such a day, Joseph entered into the house to do his works, and no one was in the house inside.
GEN 39:12 And she drew him by his clothes, saying, Come to bed with me! And leaving behind his clothes in her hands, he fled and went forth outside.
GEN 39:13 And it came to pass as she saw that leaving behind his clothes in her hands, he fled and went forth outside,
GEN 39:14 that she called the ones being in the house, and said to them, saying, See! He brought in to us a Hebrew servant to mock us. He entered to me, saying, Come to bed with me! And I yelled a great voice.
GEN 39:15 And in his hearing that my voice was raised, and I yelled, leaving behind his clothes by me, he fled, and he went forth outside.
GEN 39:16 And she left the clothes by herself, until the master came into his house.
GEN 39:17 And she spoke to him concerning these things, saying, The Hebrew servant entered to me, whom you brought in to us, to mock me. And he said to me, I will come to bed with you.
GEN 39:18 But as he heard that I raised my voice, and I yelled, leaving behind his clothes by me, he fled, and went forth outside.
GEN 39:19 And it happened as his master heard the words of his wife, as much as she spoke to him, saying, Thus your servant did to me, that he was enraged with anger.
GEN 39:20 And the master taking Joseph, put him into the fortress, in the place in which the prisoners of the king were held there in the fortress.
GEN 39:21 And the LORD was with Joseph, and he poured down upon him mercy; and gave to him favor before the chief jailer.
GEN 39:22 And the chief jailer gave the jail over to the hand of Joseph, and all the ones being taken away, as many as were in the jail; and all as much as they do there, he was the one doing it.
GEN 39:23 For not was the chief jailer of the jail knowing anything concerning him - not one thing. For all was through the hand of Joseph, because of the reason the LORD being with him. And as much as he did, the LORD prospered the way in his hands.
GEN 40:1 And it came to pass after these things, the chief wine taster of the king of Egypt sinned, and the chief baker, against their master the king of Egypt.
GEN 40:2 And Pharaoh was provoked to anger over his two eunuchs - over the chief wine taster and over the chief baker.
GEN 40:3 And he put them under guard in the jail, into the place where Joseph had been taken away there.
GEN 40:4 And the chief jailer combined them to Joseph; and he stood beside them. And they were some days under guard.
GEN 40:5 And both saw a dream in one night. And the vision of the dream of the chief wine taster and the chief baker who were in service to the king of Egypt, the ones being in the jail, was this -
GEN 40:6 And Joseph entered to them in the morning, and he saw them, and they were disturbed.
GEN 40:7 And he asked the eunuchs of Pharaoh, who were with him under guard, by his master, saying, Why is it that your faces are looking downcast today?
GEN 40:8 And they said to him, We saw a dream, and the interpreting it is not. And Joseph said to them, Is not the explanation of them through God? Describe them then to me.
GEN 40:9 And the chief wine taster described his dream to Joseph. And he said, In my sleep there was a grapevine before me.
GEN 40:10 And in the grapevine three lower branches; and it flourished offering mature buds - the clusters of the grape.
GEN 40:11 And the cup of Pharaoh was in my hand. And I took the grape cluster, and squeezed it into the cup, and gave the cup into the hand of Pharaoh.
GEN 40:12 And Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it. The three lower branches are three days.
GEN 40:13 In yet three days and Pharaoh will remember your office, and restore you to your office of chief wine taster, and you will give the cup to Pharaoh, into his hand according to your former office, as you were of the wine servers.
GEN 40:14 But remember me of yourself, whenever good happens to you, and you shall do with me an act of mercy. And you shall remind Pharaoh concerning me, and lead me from this fortress.
GEN 40:15 For by stealth I was stolen from the land of the Hebrews, and here I did not do anything, but they put me into this pit.
GEN 40:16 And the chief baker saw that rightly he interpreted. And he said to Joseph, I also saw a dream, and I imagined three bins of groats lifted upon my head.
GEN 40:17 And in the bin above, items of all kinds of things of which Pharaoh eats - the work of a baker. And the birds of the heaven ate them from the bin upon my head.
GEN 40:18 And answering, Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it. The three bins are three days.
GEN 40:19 Yet in three days and Pharaoh will remove your head from you, and hang you upon a timber, and the birds of the heaven will eat the flesh from you.
GEN 40:20 And it came to pass in the third day, which was the birth day of Pharaoh, that he made a banquet for all his servants; and he remembered concerning the chief wine taster, and the office of the chief baker, in the midst of his servants.
GEN 40:21 And he restored the chief wine taster to his office, and he gave the cup unto the hand of Pharaoh.
GEN 40:22 And the chief baker he hung, as Joseph interpreted to them.
GEN 40:23 And the chief wine taster did not remember Joseph, but forgot him.
GEN 41:1 And it came to pass after two years of days, Pharaoh saw a dream. He imagined standing at the river.
GEN 41:2 And behold, as if from out of the river ascended seven oxen good to the sight and choice in the flesh; and they were grazing in the reed-grass.
GEN 41:3 And another seven oxen ascended after these from out of the river, shameful to the sight and thin in the flesh, and feeding by the oxen by the edge of the river.
GEN 41:4 And the seven shameful and thin in the flesh oxen ate up the seven oxen good to the sight, and choice. And Pharaoh arose.
GEN 41:5 And he dreamed the second time. And behold, seven choice and good ears of wheat ascended in the one lower branch.
GEN 41:6 And behold, seven ears of wheat, thin and destroyed by the wind grew up after them.
GEN 41:7 And the seven thin and destroyed by wind ears of wheat swallowed down the seven choice and full ears of wheat. And Pharaoh arose, and it was a dream.
GEN 41:8 And it came to pass in the morning and his soul was disturbed. And sending, he called all the expositors of Egypt, and all her wise ones. And Pharaoh described to them his dream. And there was not one reporting it to Pharaoh.
GEN 41:9 And the chief wine taster spoke to Pharaoh, saying, My sin I call to mind today.
GEN 41:10 Pharaoh was provoked to anger against his servants, and he put us under guard in the house of the chief guard - both me and the chief baker.
GEN 41:11 And we saw a dream, both in one night, I and he, each according to his dream saw.
GEN 41:12 And there was there with us a young Hebrew servant of the chief guard. And we described to him, and he interpreted to us.
GEN 41:13 And it came to pass as he interpreted to us, so also it came to pass, both me being restored to my office, and that one being hanged.
GEN 41:14 And Pharaoh having sent called for Joseph. And they led him from the fortress, and shaved him, and changed his apparel, and he came to Pharaoh.
GEN 41:15 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have seen a dream, and there is not one interpreting it. But I have heard concerning you, saying, In your hearing dreams you interpret them.
GEN 41:16 And Joseph answering to Pharaoh said, Without God deliverance shall not be answered to Pharaoh.
GEN 41:17 And Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, In my sleep I imagined standing by the edge of the river.
GEN 41:18 And as if from out of the river ascended seven oxen, good to the sight and choice in the flesh, and they fed at the reed-grass.
GEN 41:19 And behold, another seven oxen ascended after them from out of the river, in a sorry state and shameful to the sight and thin in the flesh, which things I did not see such shameful things in the entire land of Egypt.
GEN 41:20 And the seven shameful and thin oxen ate up the seven oxen - the first, the good and the choice.
GEN 41:21 And they entered into their bellies. And it did not become apparent that they entered into their bellies. And their appearance was shameful, as also at the beginning. And after awakening, I went back to bed.
GEN 41:22 And I saw again in my sleep, even as if seven ears of wheat ascended in one lower branch, full and good.
GEN 41:23 And another seven ears of wheat, thin and destroyed by the wind grew up next to them.
GEN 41:24 And the seven thin and destroyed by the wind ears of wheat swallowed down the seven good and full ears of wheat. I told it then to the expositors, and there was not one reporting it to me.
GEN 41:25 And Joseph said to Pharaoh, The dream to Pharaoh is one. As much as God does, he showed to Pharaoh.
GEN 41:26 The seven good oxen - it is seven years; and the seven good ears of wheat - it is seven years; the dream of Pharaoh is one.
GEN 41:27 And the seven thin oxen, the ones ascending after them - it is seven years; and the seven thin and destroyed by the wind ears of wheat - it is seven years; there shall be seven years of famine.
GEN 41:28 And the saying which I have said to Pharaoh; God will do as much to show to Pharaoh.
GEN 41:29 Behold, for seven years there comes great prosperity in all the land of Egypt.
GEN 41:30 But seven years of famine shall come after these, and they shall forget the fullness being in all the land of Egypt; and the famine will consume the land.
GEN 41:31 And the prosperity shall not be realized in the land because of the famine being after these things; for it will be exceedingly strong.
GEN 41:32 And concerning the repetition of the dream to Pharaoh twice, it is because the saying by God will be true, and God will hasten to do it.
GEN 41:33 Now then, look about for a man intelligent and discerning, and place him over the land of Egypt!
GEN 41:34 And let Pharaoh do this, and place toparchs over the land. And let them take a fifth of all the produce of the land of Egypt of the seven years of prosperity!
GEN 41:35 And let them bring together all the foods of these coming seven good years! And let them bring together the grain under the hand of Pharaoh - foods to be guarded in the cities!
GEN 41:36 And the foods being guarded shall be for the land in the seven years of the famine, which will be in the land of Egypt; and the land shall not be obliterated in the famine.
GEN 41:37 And the saying was pleasing before Pharaoh, and before all his servants.
GEN 41:38 And Pharaoh said to his servants, Shall we find such a man who has spirit of God in him?
GEN 41:39 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Since God showed to you all these things, there is not a man more intelligent and more discerning than you.
GEN 41:40 You will be over my house, and by your mouth all my people shall obey. Except for the throne - I will excel you.
GEN 41:41 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Behold, I place you today over all the land of Egypt.
GEN 41:42 And Pharaoh, removing the ring from his hand, put it upon the hand of Joseph. And he put on him fine linen apparel, and he put a collar of gold about his neck.
GEN 41:43 And he transported him upon his second chariot. And a herald proclaimed in front of him. And he placed him over the entire land of Egypt.
GEN 41:44 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, without you not anyone shall lift his hand over all the land of Egypt.
GEN 41:45 And Pharaoh called the name of Joseph, Zaphnath-paaneah. And he gave to him Asenath, daughter of Poti-phera, priest of Heliopolis, to him as a wife.
GEN 41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went forth from the face of Pharaoh, and went through all the land of Egypt.
GEN 41:47 And the land produced prosperity of sheaves in the seven years.
GEN 41:48 And was brought together all the foods of the seven years in which there was prosperity in the land of Egypt. And he put the foods in the cities. Foods of the plains of the city of the places round about it, he put in it.
GEN 41:49 And Joseph gathered together grain as the sand of the sea, much exceedingly, until they were not able to count it, for there was not a number.
GEN 41:50 And to Joseph were born two sons before the coming of the seven years of the famine, which Asenath bore to him, the daughter of Poti-phera, priest of Heliopolis.
GEN 41:51 And Joseph called the name of the first-born Manasseh; for God made me forget all my miseries, and all of the things of my father.
GEN 41:52 And the name of the second he called Ephraim; for God increased me in the land of my humiliation.
GEN 41:53 And went by the seven years of prosperity, which came to pass in the land of Egypt.
GEN 41:54 And the seven years of famine began to come as Joseph said. And there became famine in all the earth; but in all the land of Egypt there were breads.
GEN 41:55 And all the land of Egypt hungered, and the people cried out to Pharaoh for breads. And Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, You go to Joseph, and what ever he says to you, you do!
GEN 41:56 And the famine was upon the face of all the earth. And Joseph opened all the granaries, and sold to all the Egyptians.
GEN 41:57 And all the regions came to Egypt to buy from Joseph; for the famine prevailed in all the earth.
GEN 42:1 And Jacob seeing that there is grain for sale in Egypt, said to his sons, Why are you lazy?
GEN 42:2 Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down there and buy for us a small amount of foods that we should live, and not die!
GEN 42:3 And the brothers of Joseph went down, the ten, to buy grain from Egypt.
GEN 42:4 But Benjamin the brother of Joseph was not sent with his brothers; for he said, Lest at any time should come to pass to him an infirmity.
GEN 42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy with the ones coming; for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
GEN 42:6 And Joseph was the ruler of the land; he sold to all the people of the land. And the brothers of Joseph coming did obeisance to him upon their face upon the ground.
GEN 42:7 And Joseph seeing his brothers, recognized and alienated himself from them, and spoke to them hard. And he said to them, From what place have you come? And they said, From out of the land of Canaan, to buy foods.
GEN 42:8 And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.
GEN 42:9 And Joseph remembered his dreams which he himself saw. And he said to them, You are spies to study the tracks of the place in which you have come.
GEN 42:10 And they said, No, O lord, your servants came to buy foods.
GEN 42:11 We are all sons of one man; we are peaceable. Your servants are not spies.
GEN 42:12 And he said to them, No, but you came to see the tracks of the land.
GEN 42:13 And they said, Your servants are twelve brothers in the land of Canaan; and behold, our younger brother is with our father today, and the other does not exist.
GEN 42:14 And Joseph said to them, This is it that I have said to you, saying that, You are spies.
GEN 42:15 In this you shall appear exposed, by the health of Pharaoh, no way should you go forth from here if your younger brother should not come here.
GEN 42:16 You send one from you, and bring your brother! But you shall be taken away until your sayings become apparent, if you be truthful, or not. But if not, by the health of Pharaoh, assuredly you are spies.
GEN 42:17 And he put them in prison three days.
GEN 42:18 And he said to them in the third day, You do this and you shall live! for I fear God.
GEN 42:19 If you are peaceable, let one of your brothers be held in the prison! But you yourselves proceed and take back the purchase of your provision!
GEN 42:20 And you lead your younger brother to me, and I will believe your sayings! But if not you shall die. And they did so.
GEN 42:21 And said each to his brother, Yes, for we are in sins on account of our brother, for we overlooked the affliction of his soul when he besought us, and we did not listen to him, and because of this this affliction came upon us.
GEN 42:22 And Reuben answering, said to them, Did I not speak to you, saying, You should not wrong the lad, and you hearkened not to me? And behold, his blood is required.
GEN 42:23 And they knew not that Joseph heard, for the translator was between them.
GEN 42:24 And turning from them, Joseph wept. And again he came forward to them, and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from them, and he tied him before them.
GEN 42:25 And Joseph gave charge to fill up their containers of grain, and to give back their silver to each in his sackcloth, and to give them provisions for the journey. And it became to them so.
GEN 42:26 And placing the grain upon their donkeys they went forth from there.
GEN 42:27 And one untying his bag, to give fodder to his donkeys where they rested, then saw his bundle of silver, for it was upon the mouth of the bag.
GEN 42:28 And he said to his brothers, the silver was given back to me, and behold, this is in my bag. And it startled their hearts, and they were disturbed with one another, saying, What is this God did to us?
GEN 42:29 And they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan. And they reported to him all the things coming to pass to them, saying,
GEN 42:30 The man the master of the land spoke to us hard, and put us in prison as spying out the land.
GEN 42:31 And we said to him, We are peaceable, we are not spies.
GEN 42:32 Twelve brothers we are, sons of our father; the one does not exist, and the younger is with our father today in the land of Canaan.
GEN 42:33 And the man the master of the land said to us, By this I will know that you are peaceable; you leave one of your brothers here with me, and the purchase of the provision for your house having taken, you go forth!
GEN 42:34 And you lead to me your younger brother; and I shall know that you are not spies, but that you are peaceable; and I will give back to you your brother, and you can trade in the land!
GEN 42:35 And it happened in their emptying their sackcloths, and there was of each a bundle of silver in their sackcloth. And they saw the bundles of their silver to them, and the one of their father, and they feared.
GEN 42:36 And Jacob their father said to them, You are making me childless; Joseph is not, Simeon is not, and will you take Benjamin? Upon me all these things happened.
GEN 42:37 And Reuben said to his father, saying, The two sons of mine you may kill if I do not lead him to you. You give him into my hand, and I will lead him to you.
GEN 42:38 And he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother died, and he alone is left behind. And suppose it shall come to pass that he be infirm in the way which ever you go, and you will lead me in old age with distress into Hades.
GEN 43:1 But the famine grew in strength upon the land.
GEN 43:2 And it came to pass when they completed eating up the grain which they brought from Egypt, that their father said to them, In again going, you buy us a small amount of foods!
GEN 43:3 And Judah said to him, saying, The man bore witness by testifying to us, the master of the land, saying, You shall not see my face if your younger brother should not come with you.
GEN 43:4 If then, you send our brother with us, we will go down, and we will buy foods for you.
GEN 43:5 But if you do not send our brother with us, we will not go, for the man said to us, saying, You shall not see my face if your younger brother should not be with you.
GEN 43:6 And Israel said, Why did you do evil to me announcing to the man that there is to you a brother?
GEN 43:7 And they said, In asking, the man asked of us and our family, saying, Does our father still live, and if there is to us a brother. And we reported to him according to this questioning. We did not know that he would say to us, You bring your brother!
GEN 43:8 And Judah said to Israel his father, You send the lad with me, and rising up let us go; that we may live and not die, even we, and you, and our belongings.
GEN 43:9 I will look out for him; from out of my hand you seek him. If I do not lead him to you, and set him before you, I will be sinning against you all the days.
GEN 43:10 For if had not we slowed, already even we should have returned twice.
GEN 43:11 And Israel their father said to them, If so it is, this you do! You take from the fruits of the earth in your containers, and bring to the man gifts of balm, and of honey, and incense, and balsam, and turpentine resin, and walnuts!
GEN 43:12 And you take double silver in your hands; and the silver being returned in your bags, you return it with you; perhaps it is by ignorance!
GEN 43:13 And you take your brother, and rising, go down to the man!
GEN 43:14 And my God give to you favor before the man, even to send your brother, the other one, and Benjamin. For as much as I indeed have been made childless, I have been made childless.
GEN 43:15 And the men taking these gifts, also took the double silver in their hands, and Benjamin; and rising up they went down into Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
GEN 43:16 And Joseph saw them, and Benjamin his brother, the one born of the same mother. And he said to the one over his house, Bring the men into the house, and slay the things offered for sacrifices, and prepare; for the men will eat with me breads at midday!
GEN 43:17 And the man did as Joseph said. And he brought the men into the house of Joseph.
GEN 43:18 And the men seeing that they were brought into the house of Joseph, said, On account of the silver returned in our bags in the beginning we are brought in - to extort us, and to place charge upon us, to take us as servants, and our donkeys.
GEN 43:19 And coming forward to the man over the house of Joseph, they spoke to him in the vestibule of the house,
GEN 43:20 saying, We beseech you, O master, we went down in the beginning to buy foods.
GEN 43:21 And it happened when we came to rest up, and we opened our bags, that thus, the silver was in each of his bag. We return now our silver with the weight in our hands.
GEN 43:22 And we brought other silver with ourselves to buy foods; we do not know who put the silver in our bags.
GEN 43:23 And he said to them, Kindness be to you, do not fear; your God, and the God of your fathers, he gave to you treasures in your bags; and your silver in approving I receive. And he led out to them Simeon.
GEN 43:24 And he brought water to wash their feet, and gave fodder to their donkeys.
GEN 43:25 And they prepared the gifts until Joseph came at midday; for they heard that he was about to dine there.
GEN 43:26 And Joseph entered into the house, and they brought to him the gifts which they had in their hands into the house, and did obeisance to him upon their face upon the ground.
GEN 43:27 And he asked them, How have you been? And he said to them, Is your father in health, the old man whom you spoke of? Still he lives?
GEN 43:28 And they said, He is in health - your servant our father, still lives. And he said, Blessed be that man by God. And bowing they did obeisance to him.
GEN 43:29 And looking up with his eyes, he saw Benjamin his brother, the one born of the same mother. And he said, This is your brother, the younger, whom you spoke to me to bring? And he said, God show mercy to you, child.
GEN 43:30 And Joseph was disturbed; for his innards contracted over his brother, and he was seeking to weep; and he entered into the storeroom to weep there.
GEN 43:31 And he washed his face, and coming forth he controlled himself, and said, You place the breads.
GEN 43:32 And they placed a setting to him alone, and to them by themselves, and to the Egyptians dining with him by themselves; for the Egyptians were not able to eat breads with the Hebrews; for it is an abomination to the Egyptians.
GEN 43:33 And they seated before him the first-born according to their seniority, and the younger according to his youth. And the men each were looking amazed at his brother.
GEN 43:34 And they lifted away the portions from him to them; and the portion of Benjamin was magnified over the portions of all - five-fold over those. And they drank and became intoxicated with him.
GEN 44:1 And Joseph gave charge to the one over his house, saying, Fill the bags of the men with foods, as much as they are able to lift away. And put in each the silver at the mouth of the bag.
GEN 44:2 And my silver drinking cup put into the bag of the younger, and the value of his grain. And it happened according to the word of Joseph, as he said.
GEN 44:3 In the morning light shone through, and the men were sent, they and their donkeys.
GEN 44:4 And of their going forth from the city, not at a far distance, and Joseph said to the one over his house, In rising up, pursue after the men, and you shall overtake them! And you shall say to them, For what reason did you recompense bad for good? Why did you steal my silver drinking cup?
GEN 44:5 Is this not in which my master drinks, and he foretells an omen by it? You completed the wicked things which you have done.
GEN 44:6 And having found them, he said to them according to these words.
GEN 44:7 And they said to him, Why speaks the master in these words? May it not be to your servants to do according to this word,
GEN 44:8 since the silver which we found in our bags we returned to you from the land of Canaan. How then would we steal from out of the house of your master silver or gold?
GEN 44:9 By whom ever the drinking cup should be found of your servants, let him die! and we also will be servants to your master.
GEN 44:10 And he said, And now as you say, so it will be. By whom ever the drinking cup should be found, will be my servant, and you all shall be pure.
GEN 44:11 And they hastened, and each lowered his bag upon the ground, and each opened his bag.
GEN 44:12 And he searched beginning from the older until he came to the younger. And he found the drinking cup in the bag of Benjamin.
GEN 44:13 And they tore their cloaks, and each placed his bag upon his donkey, and they returned to the city.
GEN 44:14 And Judah entered, and his brothers, to Joseph while he was there. And they fell before him upon the ground.
GEN 44:15 And Joseph said to them, What is this thing you did? Did you not know that a man such as I shall foretell an omen?
GEN 44:16 And Judah said, How shall we contradict the master, or what shall we speak, or how shall we be justified? For God found the injustice of your servants. Behold, we are servants to our master, both we, and by whom was found with the drinking cup.
GEN 44:17 And Joseph said, Let it not be to me to do this thing. The man by whom was found with the drinking cup, he will be my servant; but you all ascend with safety to your father.
GEN 44:18 And approaching to him, Judah said, I beseech O lord, let your servant speak before you, and be not enraged with your servant, for you are after Pharaoh!
GEN 44:19 O lord, you asked your servants, saying, Have you a father or brother?
GEN 44:20 And we said to the master, There is to us a father, an older man, and a younger child in his old age, and his brother died, and he alone was left behind of his mother, and his father loved him.
GEN 44:21 And you said to your servants, Lead him to me, and I will care for him!
GEN 44:22 And we said to the master, The child is not able to leave his father; and if he should leave the father will die.
GEN 44:23 And you said to your servants, If Your younger brother does not go down with you, you shall not proceed to see my face.
GEN 44:24 And it happened when we ascended to your servant our father, we reported to him the words of our master.
GEN 44:25 And our father said, Proceed again, and buy for us a small amount of foods!
GEN 44:26 And we said, We will not be able to go down; but if then our younger brother goes down with us, we will go down; for not will we be able to see the face of the man, if our younger brother is not being with us.
GEN 44:27 And our father your servant said to us, You know that my wife bore to me two;
GEN 44:28 and the one went forth from me, and you said that, He was devoured by wild beasts. And I did not see him as far as now.
GEN 44:29 If then you should take also this one from my face, and comes to pass to him an infirmity in the way, then know that you will lead me in old age with distress into Hades.
GEN 44:30 Now then, if I should enter to your servant, and our father, and the child should not be with us, then know his life depends on this one's life.
GEN 44:31 And it will be in his seeing the child not being with us that he will come to an end. And your servants will lead the old age of your servant, and our father, with distress into Hades.
GEN 44:32 For your servant has looked out for the child for my father, saying, If I do not lead him to you, I will be sinning against my father all the days.
GEN 44:33 Now then, I will remain to you as a servant instead of the child, as a domestic servant of my master; but let the child ascend with his brothers!
GEN 44:34 For how shall I ascend to the father of the child, with his not being with us, that I should not see the bad things which will find my father?
GEN 45:1 And Joseph was not able to withhold of all the ones standing beside him. But he said, Send all from me! And not even one stood beside Joseph when he made himself known to his brothers.
GEN 45:2 And he let go with a voice of weeping. And all the Egyptians heard, and it became audible into the house of Pharaoh.
GEN 45:3 And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph, does my father still live? And the brothers were not able to respond to him, for they were disturbed.
GEN 45:4 And Joseph said to his brothers, Approach to me! And they approached. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom you delivered into Egypt.
GEN 45:5 Now then, do not fret, nor let it appear hard to you, that you delivered me here; for God sent me for life in front of you.
GEN 45:6 For this second year a famine is upon the earth, and still remaining are five years in which there is not a plowing nor harvest.
GEN 45:7 For God sent me in front of you, that there may be left to you a vestige upon the earth, and to nourish to you a great remnant.
GEN 45:8 Now then, you did not send me here, but God. And he made me as father to Pharaoh, and master of all his house, and ruler of all the land of Egypt.
GEN 45:9 Hastening then, you ascend to my father, and say to him! Thus says your son Joseph, God made me master of all the land of Egypt. Come down then to me, and you should not wait!
GEN 45:10 And you shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you will be near me, you and your sons, and the sons of your sons, your sheep, and your oxen, and as much as is yours.
GEN 45:11 And I will nourish you there; for there is still five years of famine; that you shall not be obliterated - you and your sons, and all your possessions.
GEN 45:12 Behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin that my mouth is speaking to you.
GEN 45:13 Report then to my father all my glory in Egypt, and as much as you saw! And hastening, bring down my father here!
GEN 45:14 And falling upon the neck of Benjamin his brother, he weeped upon him; and Benjamin weeped upon his neck.
GEN 45:15 And kissing all his brothers, he wept on them. And after these things his brothers spoke to him.
GEN 45:16 And the report was proclaimed forth into the house of Pharaoh, saying, The brothers of Joseph have come. And Pharaoh rejoiced, and his attendant.
GEN 45:17 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Speak to your brothers! This you do - fill your carriages, and go forth into the land of Canaan!
GEN 45:18 And taking up your father, and your possessions, come to me! And I will give to you all the good things of Egypt, and you shall eat the marrow of the land.
GEN 45:19 And you, you charge these to take for themselves wagons from out of the land of Egypt to your children, and your wives! And taking up your father, come!
GEN 45:20 And you should not be sparing to the eyes of your items; for all the good things of Egypt will be unto you.
GEN 45:21 And they did thus, the sons of Israel. And Joseph gave to them wagons, according to the sayings by Pharaoh the king. And he gave to them provisions for the journey.
GEN 45:22 And to all he gave double robes. But to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of gold, and five changings of robes.
GEN 45:23 And to his father he sent according to the same, and ten donkeys carrying of all the good things of Egypt; and ten mules carrying breads to his father for the journey.
GEN 45:24 And Joseph sent out his brothers, and they went. And he said to them, Do not be provoked to anger in the way!
GEN 45:25 And they ascended from out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan to Jacob their father.
GEN 45:26 And they announced to him, saying that, Your son Joseph lives, and he rules all the land of Egypt. And Jacob receded in his thought, for he trusted them not.
GEN 45:27 And they spoke to him all the sayings of Joseph, as much as he said to them. And seeing the wagons which Joseph sent, so as to take him, the spirit of Jacob their father rekindled.
GEN 45:28 And Israel said, It is a great thing to me if Joseph my son still lives. In going I will see him before dying.
GEN 46:1 And Israel departing, and all of his, he came upon the Well of the Oath. And he sacrificed a sacrifice offering to the God of his father Isaac.
GEN 46:2 And God said to Israel in a vision of the night, saying, Jacob, Jacob! And he said, What is it?
GEN 46:3 And he says to him, I am the God of your fathers; do not fear to go down into Egypt! for I will make you into a great nation there.
GEN 46:4 And I will go down with you into Egypt, and I will transport you to the end, and Joseph will put his hands upon your eyes.
GEN 46:5 And Jacob rose up from the Well of the Oath. And the sons of Israel took up Jacob their father, and the belongings, and their wives, upon the wagons which Joseph sent to carry him.
GEN 46:6 And taking up their possessions, and all the property which they acquired in the land of Canaan, they entered into Egypt - Jacob, and all his seed with him.
GEN 46:7 Sons, and sons of his sons with him; daughters, and daughters of his daughters, and all his seed he led into Egypt.
GEN 46:8 And these are the names of the sons of Israel, entering into Egypt together with Jacob their father. Jacob and his sons - the first-born of Jacob, Reuben.
GEN 46:9 And the sons of Reuben - Hanoch, and Phallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
GEN 46:10 And the sons of Simeon - Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, son of the Canaanitess.
GEN 46:11 And the sons of Levi - Gerson, and Kohath, and Merari.
GEN 46:12 And the sons of Judah - Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zerah. And Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons born of Pharez - Hezron, and Hamul.
GEN 46:13 And the sons of Issachar - Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.
GEN 46:14 And the sons of Zebulun - Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.
GEN 46:15 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Mesopotamia of Syria, and Dinah his daughter. All the souls, sons and daughters - thirty three.
GEN 46:16 And the sons of Gad - Ziphion, and Haggi, and Shuni, and Ezbon, and Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
GEN 46:17 And the sons of Asher - Jimnah, Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah - Heber and Malchiel.
GEN 46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, who bore these to Jacob - sixteen souls.
GEN 46:19 And the sons of Rachel, wife of Jacob - Joseph and Benjamin.
GEN 46:20 And the sons of Joseph born in the land of Egypt, whom Asenath bore to him, the daughter of Poti-phera, priest of Heliopolis - Manasseh and Ephraim. And were born the sons of Manasseh whom Sura the concubine bore to him - Machir. And Machir procreated Gilead. And the sons of Ephraim brother of Manasseh - Sutalaam, and Tam. And the sons of Sutalaam - Edem.
GEN 46:21 And the sons of Benjamin - Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, and Ehi, Rosh, and Muppim, and Huppim. And Gera procreated Ard.
GEN 46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, whom she bore to Jacob - all the souls - eighteen.
GEN 46:23 And the sons of Dan - Hushim.
GEN 46:24 And the sons of Naphtali - Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
GEN 46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, who bore these to Jacob - all the souls - seven.
GEN 46:26 And all the souls entering with Jacob into Egypt, coming forth from out of his thighs, separate from the wives of Jacob's sons - all souls - sixty-six.
GEN 46:27 And the sons of Joseph being born to him in the land of Egypt - nine souls. All the souls of the house of Jacob, the ones entering with Jacob into Egypt - seventy-five souls.
GEN 46:28 And he sent Judah in front of him to Joseph, to meet him near Heropolis, in the land of Rameses.
GEN 46:29 And Joseph teaming up his chariots, ascended to meet Israel his father at Heropolis. And seeing him, he fell upon his neck, and wept weeping greatly.
GEN 46:30 And Israel said to Joseph, I will gladly die from now on, since I have seen your face, for still you live.
GEN 46:31 And Joseph said to his brothers, In ascending, I will report to Pharaoh, and will say to him, My brothers, and the house of my father, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me.
GEN 46:32 And the men are shepherds, for they were men grazing cattle. And the cattle, and the oxen, and all their things, they have brought.
GEN 46:33 If then Pharaoh should call you, and he should say, What is your work?
GEN 46:34 You shall say, your servants are men grazing cattle from child hood until the present, even we, and our fathers - that you may dwell in the land of Goshen of Arabia; for every shepherd of flocks is an abomination to the Egyptians.
GEN 47:1 And Joseph came to report to Pharaoh, saying, My father and my brothers, and the cattle, and their oxen, and all their things, are come from out of the land of Canaan; and behold, they are in the land of Goshen.
GEN 47:2 And from his brothers he took five men, and stood them before Pharaoh.
GEN 47:3 And Pharaoh said to the brothers of Joseph, What is your work? And they said to Pharaoh, Your servants are shepherds of flocks, even we, and our fathers.
GEN 47:4 And they said to Pharaoh, We come to sojourn in the land, for there is not a pasture for the cattle of your servants, for the famine grew in strength in the land of Canaan. Now then let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen!
GEN 47:5 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, saying, Your father and your brothers have come to you.
GEN 47:6 Behold, the land of Egypt is before you; settle in the best land - your father and your brothers. Let them dwell in the land of Goshen! And if you should have knowledge that there are among them able men, you place them in charge of my cattle!
GEN 47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and stood him before Pharaoh. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
GEN 47:8 And Pharaoh said to Jacob, How many are the years of days of your life?
GEN 47:9 And Jacob said to Pharaoh, The days of the years of my life which I sojourned are a hundred thirty years; small and severe have become the days of the years of my life - they did not attain to the days of the years of the life of my fathers, which days they sojourned.
GEN 47:10 And Jacob having blessed Pharaoh, went forth from him.
GEN 47:11 And Joseph settled his father and his brothers, and gave to them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh assigned.
GEN 47:12 And Joseph measured out grain to his father, and to his brothers, and to all the house of his father - grain according to person.
GEN 47:13 And there was not grain in all the earth; for the famine grew in strength exceedingly. And the land of Egypt failed, and the land of Canaan, because of the famine.
GEN 47:14 And Joseph brought together all the silver being found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, from the grain which they bought. And he measured out grain to them. And Joseph carried in all the silver into the house of Pharaoh.
GEN 47:15 And all the silver dissipated from the land of Egypt, and from the land of Canaan. And all the Egyptians came to Joseph, saying, Give to us breads! And why should we die before you, for our silver has dissipated?
GEN 47:16 And Joseph said to them, Bring your cattle, and I will give to you breads in exchange for your cattle, if the silver has dissipated.
GEN 47:17 And they led their cattle to Joseph. And Joseph gave to them breads in return for the horses, and for the sheep, and for the oxen, and for the donkeys. And he nourished them with breads in exchange for all of their cattle in that year.
GEN 47:18 And that year went by, and they came to him in the second year, and said to him, Lest at some time we should be obliterated from our master - for since the silver has dissipated, and the possessions, and the cattle to you, the master, and there has not been left behind to us before our master, but only our own body and our land,
GEN 47:19 that then we might not die before you, and the land should be made desolate, you acquire us and our land for breads, and we will be to you and our land, servants to Pharaoh! Give us seed, that we should sow, and we should live, and should not die, and the land shall not be made desolate!
GEN 47:20 And Joseph acquired all the land of the Egyptians to Pharaoh. For the Egyptians gave their land to Pharaoh. For the famine prevailed over them. And the land came to Pharaoh.
GEN 47:21 And the people were reduced to slavery to him as servants from the uttermost parts of the boundaries of Egypt, unto the uttermost parts,
GEN 47:22 except the land of the priests only - this Joseph did not acquire, for Pharaoh gave a portion as a gift to the priests. And they ate the portion which Pharaoh gave to them. On account of this they did not give up their land.
GEN 47:23 And Joseph said to all the Egyptians, Behold, I have acquired you and your land today to Pharaoh. Take to yourselves seed, and sow the land!
GEN 47:24 And there will be produce of it, and you will give the fifth part to Pharaoh, and the four parts will be to you yourselves, for seed in the earth, and for food to you, and to all the ones in your houses.
GEN 47:25 And they said, You have delivered us; we found favor before our master, and we will be servants to Pharaoh.
GEN 47:26 And Joseph established it to them as an order until this day, for the land of Egypt to take a fifth for Pharaoh, except of the land of the priests only, which was not to Pharaoh.
GEN 47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, upon the land of Goshen; and they were heir over it, and they grew, and multiplied exceedingly.
GEN 47:28 And Jacob outlived in the land of Egypt for seventeen years. And the days of Jacob's years of his life were a hundred forty-seven years.
GEN 47:29 And the days approached for Israel to die. And he called his son Joseph, and said to him, If I have found favor before you, place your hand upon my thigh, and you will do for me a charity and truth - that is to not entomb me in Egypt!
GEN 47:30 But I shall be gone to sleep with my fathers, then you shall lift me from out of Egypt, and entomb me in their burying place. And he said, I will do according to your saying.
GEN 47:31 And he said to him, Swear by an oath to me! And he swore by an oath to him. And Israel did obeisance upon the tip of his cane.
GEN 48:1 And it came to pass after these things, and it was announced to Joseph that, Your father is troubled. And taking up his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, he came to Jacob.
GEN 48:2 And it was reported to Jacob, saying, Behold, your son Joseph comes to you. And Israel growing strong sat upon the bed.
GEN 48:3 And Jacob said to Joseph, My God appeared to me in Luz, in the land of Canaan, and blessed me.
GEN 48:4 And he said to me, Behold, I will increase you, and I will multiply you, and I will make you into a gathering of nations. And I will give to you this land, and to your seed after you, for an eternal possession.
GEN 48:5 Now then, your two sons born to you in the land of Egypt, before my coming to you in Egypt, are mine - Ephraim and Manasseh; as Reuben and Simeon they shall be mine.
GEN 48:6 And the progeny, who ever should be procreated after these will be yours. By the name of their brothers they shall be called in those lots.
GEN 48:7 But I, when I came from Mesopotamia of Syria, Rachel your mother died in the land of Canaan at my approaching down by the course of the horses of Habratha, of the land before coming into Ephrath. And I buried her in the way of the course of the horses - this is Beth-lehem.
GEN 48:8 And Israel seeing the sons of Joseph, said, Who are these to you?
GEN 48:9 And Joseph said to his father, They are my sons whom God gave to me here. And Jacob said, Lead them forward to me, that I may bless them.
GEN 48:10 And the eyes of Israel were weighed down because of old age, and he was not able to see. And they approached to him, and he kissed them, and embraced them.
GEN 48:11 And Israel said to Joseph, Behold, I was not deprived of your face; and behold, God showed you to me and your seed.
GEN 48:12 And Joseph led them from his knees, and they did obeisance to him with their face upon the ground.
GEN 48:13 And Joseph taking his two sons, with Ephraim at the right, but from the left of Israel, and Manasseh at the left, but from the right of Israel, then approached them to him.
GEN 48:14 And Israel stretching out the right hand, put it upon the head of Ephraim, and this one was the younger; and the left upon the head of Manasseh - crosswise with the hands.
GEN 48:15 And he blessed them, and said, The God in whom my fathers were well-pleasing in his presence - Abraham and Isaac, the God maintaining me from my youth until this day;
GEN 48:16 the angel rescuing me from all the evils, bless these boys! And my name shall be called upon them, and the name of my fathers - Abraham and Isaac. And may they multiply into a great multitude upon the earth.
GEN 48:17 And Joseph seeing that his father put his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it appeared wrong to him. And Joseph took hold of the hand of his father, to remove it from the head of Ephraim, to the head of Manasseh.
GEN 48:18 And Joseph said to his father, Not so, father; for this one is the first-born; place your right hand upon his head.
GEN 48:19 And he would not, but said, I know child, I know; and this one will be for a people, and this one will be raised up high. But his younger brother will be greater than he, and his seed will be a multitude of nations.
GEN 48:20 And he blessed them in that day, saying, By you Israel shall be blessed, saying, God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh! And he put Ephraim in front of Manasseh.
GEN 48:21 And Israel said to Joseph, Behold, I die, and God will be with you, and he will return you to the land of your fathers.
GEN 48:22 And I give to you a chosen out portion above your brothers, which I took from the hand of the Amorites with my sword and bow.
GEN 49:1 And Jacob called his sons, and said, Come together that I may announce to you what will meet to you upon the last of the days!
GEN 49:2 Gather, and hear, O sons of Jacob; hear Israel your father!
GEN 49:3 Reuben my first-born, you are my strength, and the beginning of my children, stubborn to bear, and stubborn self-willed.
GEN 49:4 Overflowing as water, you should not erupt; for you ascended upon the marriage-bed of your father; then you defiled the strewn bed of which you ascended.
GEN 49:5 Simeon and Levi - brothers; they completed injustice by their sects.
GEN 49:6 May my soul not come into their counsel, and may my insides (livers) not be established with their joint-conspiracy.. For in their rage they killed men, and in their passion they hamstrung a bull.
GEN 49:7 Accursed is their rage, for it was self-willed; and accursed is their vehement anger, for it was hardened. I will divide them in Jacob, and disseminate them in Israel.
GEN 49:8 Judah, may your brothers have praised you. Your hands are upon the back of your enemies. The sons of your father will do obeisance to you;
GEN 49:9 Judah is a lion cub. From a bud, O son of mine, you ascended. Reclining, you went to bed as a lion; and as a cub who will rouse him?
GEN 49:10 A ruler shall not fail from Judah, and one leading from his thighs, until whenever should come the things reserved to him; and he is expectation of nations;
GEN 49:11 binding his foal to a grapevine, and with the fetter the foal of his donkey. He shall wash his apparel in wine, and in the blood of the grape his wrap-around garment.
GEN 49:12 His eyes causing joy away from wine, and the white of his teeth than milk.
GEN 49:13 Zebulun shall dwell on the coast; even he by the mooring of boats; and he shall extend until Sidon.
GEN 49:14 Issachar desired the good, taking rest between the lots.
GEN 49:15 And seeing the rest that it was good, and the earth that it was plentiful, he placed his shoulder to the toil, and became a man for farming.
GEN 49:16 Dan will judge his people, as even one tribe in Israel.
GEN 49:17 And let Dan become a serpent upon the way, lying in wait upon the road, biting the heel of the horse, and the horseman shall fall unto the rear places,
GEN 49:18 remaining about for the deliverance of the LORD.
GEN 49:19 Gad - a marauder will maraud against him. But he will maraud against him by feet.
GEN 49:20 Asher - plentiful is his bread, and he will give a delicacy to rulers.
GEN 49:21 Naphtali - a trunk springing up, giving beauty in the offspring.
GEN 49:22 Joseph is a son increasing; a zealous son increasing; my younger son; to me you returned!
GEN 49:23 Against whom with deliberation reviled, and the masters of the bowmen pressed against him,
GEN 49:24 and their bows were broken with might, and the nerves of their hand's arms were loosened through the hand of the mighty one of Jacob; from there the one strengthening Israel by means of God of your father.
GEN 49:25 And my God gave help to you, and blessed you with the blessing of heaven above, and the blessing of earth having all things; because of the blessing of breasts, and of the womb;
GEN 49:26 a blessing of your father and of your mother - he excelled in strength over the blessing of the stable mountains, and beyond the blessings of everlasting hills; they will be upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of the brothers whom he took the lead.
GEN 49:27 Benjamin - a predacious wolf shall eat in the early morning, yet even in the evening he distributes provisions.
GEN 49:28 All these sons of Jacob - twelve. And these words their father said to them. And he blessed them each. According to his blessing he blessed them.
GEN 49:29 And he said to them, I am added to my people. Entomb me with my fathers in the cave which is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
GEN 49:30 in the double cave before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham acquired - the cave of Ephron the Hittite, for possession of a memorial!
GEN 49:31 There they entombed Abraham and Sarah his wife. And there they entombed Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I entombed Leah,
GEN 49:32 in a property of the field, and of the cave being in it, the one from the sons of Heth.
GEN 49:33 And Jacob rested giving orders to his sons, and lifting up his feet upon the bed he failed. And he was added to his people.
GEN 50:1 And Joseph falling upon the face of his father, wept over him, and kissed him.
GEN 50:2 And Joseph assigned to his servants, the embalmers, to embalm his father. And the embalmers embalmed Israel.
GEN 50:3 And they accomplished embalming him in forty days; for thus they counted down the days of the burial. And Egypt mourned him seventy days.
GEN 50:4 And when the days went by of the mourning, Joseph spoke to the mighty ones of Pharaoh, saying, If I found favor before you, speak into the ears of Pharaoh! saying,
GEN 50:5 My father bound me by an oath, before his coming to an end, saying, In the memorial which I dug myself, in the land of Canaan, there entomb me! Now then, ascending, I will entomb my father, and I will return back.
GEN 50:6 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Ascend, entomb your father, just as he bound you by an oath!
GEN 50:7 And Joseph ascended to entomb his father. And all the servants of Pharaoh went up with him, and the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,
GEN 50:8 and all the whole family of Joseph, and his brothers, and all the house hold of his father, and the kin. And the sheep and the oxen were left behind in the land of Goshen.
GEN 50:9 And went up with him also chariots and horsemen. And the camp became exceedingly great.
GEN 50:10 And they came upon the threshing-floor of Atad, which is on the other side of the Jordan. And they lamented him by beating the breast, great and strong, exceedingly. And he made the mourning to his father seven days.
GEN 50:11 And the inhabitants of the land of Canaan saw the mourning at the threshing-floor of Atad, and said, This is a great mourning to the Egyptians. On account of this they called the name of that place, Mourning of Egypt, which is on the other side of the Jordan.
GEN 50:12 And his sons did to him thus as he gave charge to them.
GEN 50:13 And his sons took him into the land of Canaan, and entombed him in the double cave which Abraham acquired, (the cave for a possession of a memorial,) from Ephron the Hittite, over against Mamre.
GEN 50:14 And Joseph returned to Egypt, he, and his brothers, and all the ones going up with him to entomb his father.
GEN 50:15 And the brothers of Joseph knowing that their father died, said, Lest at any time Joseph should resent us, and with a recompense, will recompense to us all the bad things which we demonstrated against him.
GEN 50:16 And having come to Joseph, they said, Your father bound us by an oath before he came to an end, saying,
GEN 50:17 So say to Joseph, You forgive them the injustice and their sin, for the wicked way they demonstrated against you! And now you accept the injustice of the attendants of the God of your father! And Joseph wept during their speaking to him.
GEN 50:18 And coming to him, they said, See, we are your servants!
GEN 50:19 And Joseph said to them, Do not fear; for I am of God!
GEN 50:20 You planned concerning me for evil, but God planned concerning me for good, that it should be as it is today, that he might maintain many people.
GEN 50:21 And he said to them, Do not fear! I will maintain you, and your residence. And he comforted them, and spoke of them in the heart.
GEN 50:22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his brothers, and all the whole family of his father. And Joseph lived a hundred ten years.
GEN 50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children unto the third generation. And the sons of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were born upon Joseph's thighs.
GEN 50:24 And Joseph said to his brothers, saying, I die. And visiting, God will visit you, and he will lead you from out of this land into the land which God swore by an oath to our fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
GEN 50:25 And Joseph bound by an oath the sons of Israel, saying, In the visitation in which God will visit you, even you shall join in carrying off my bones from here with you.
GEN 50:26 And Joseph came to an end - a hundred ten years old. And they entombed him, and they placed him in the coffin in Egypt.
EXO 1:1 These are the names of the sons of Israel entering into Egypt together with Jacob their father; each of them sojourning entered.
EXO 1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah,
EXO 1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, Benjamin,
EXO 1:4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
EXO 1:5 But Joseph was in Egypt. And all the souls coming forth from Jacob were - five and seventy.
EXO 1:6 And Joseph came to an end, and all his brothers, and all that generation.
EXO 1:7 And the sons of Israel grew and multiplied, and became extensive, and grew strong exceedingly, exceedingly. And the land multiplied of them.
EXO 1:8 And another king rose up over Egypt who knew not Joseph.
EXO 1:9 And he said to his nation, Behold, the race of the sons of Israel are a great multitude, and are strong above us.
EXO 1:10 Come then, we should deal subtly with them; lest at any time they should multiply, and whenever a war may come to pass to us, these also will add to the opponents, and waging war against us, they shall go forth from the land.
EXO 1:11 And he set over them supervisors over the works, that they might afflict them in their works. And they built fortified cities to Pharaoh - both Pithom and Raamses, and On which is Heliopolis.
EXO 1:12 And in so far as they humbled them by so much, they became many more. And they were strong exceedingly, exceedingly. And the Egyptians were abhorred of the sons of Israel.
EXO 1:13 And the Egyptians tyrannized the sons of Israel by force.
EXO 1:14 And they grievously afflicted them by the life in the hard works, in the mortar, and in the making of bricks, and in all the works in the plains, according to all the works which they were reducing them to slavery with force.
EXO 1:15 And the king of the Egyptians said to the midwives of the Hebrews, to one of them with the name Shiphrah, and the name of the second Puah.
EXO 1:16 And he said to them, Whenever you act as midwife for the Hebrews, and they should be about to bear; if then it should be a male, kill it! but if a female, preserve it!
EXO 1:17 But the midwives feared God, and they did not do in so far as the king of Egypt ordered them; and they brought forth alive the males.
EXO 1:18 And the king of Egypt called the midwives. And he said to them, Why is it that you did this thing, and brought forth alive the males?
EXO 1:19 And the midwives said to Pharaoh, Not as the women of Egypt are the Hebrews, for they give birth before the midwives entered to them, and they bear.
EXO 1:20 And God did good to the midwives. And he multiplied the people, and it became strong exceedingly.
EXO 1:21 Since the midwives feared God, they made to themselves families.
EXO 1:22 And Pharaoh gave orders to all his people, saying, Every male who ever should be born to the Hebrews toss into the river, and every female bring it forth alive!
EXO 2:1 And there was a certain man from the tribe of Levi, and he took of the daughters of Levi, and had her.
EXO 2:2 And she conceived in the womb, and bore a male. And seeing it as fair, they sheltered it three months.
EXO 2:3 But when they were not able to hide it any longer, his mother took for him a wicker basket of papyrus, and besmeared it with tar. And she put the male child into it, and put it into the marsh by the river.
EXO 2:4 And his sister spied out far off to learn what would result to him.
EXO 2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh went down to bathe upon the river, and her handmaidens came near unto the river. And she seeing the wicker basket in the marsh, sent the handmaiden to take it up.
EXO 2:6 And opening, she sees a male child weeping in the wicker basket. And the daughter of Pharaoh spared him, and said, This one is from the male children of the Hebrews.
EXO 2:7 And his sister said to the daughter of Pharaoh, If you want I will call for you a woman nourishing from the Hebrews, and she will suckle for you the male child.
EXO 2:8 And the daughter of Pharaoh said to her, Go! And going the young woman called the mother of the male child.
EXO 2:9 And the daughter of Pharaoh said to her, Carefully keep for me this male child, and suckle it for me, and I will give to you the wage. And the woman took the male child, and suckled it.
EXO 2:10 And the male child maturing, she brought it to the daughter of Pharaoh. And he became to her for a son. And she named his name Moses. Saying, For from out of the water I took him up.
EXO 2:11 And it came to pass in those many days, Moses becoming old er, he went forth to his brothers of the sons of Israel. And contemplating their misery, he saw an Egyptian man beating a certain Hebrew of his own brothers of the sons of Israel.
EXO 2:12 And looking about here on this side and here on that side he did not see anyone. And striking the Egyptian, he hid him in the sand.
EXO 2:13 And coming forth the second day, he saw two men, Hebrews skirmishing. And he says to the one in the wrong, Why do you beat your neighbor?
EXO 2:14 And he said, Who placed you ruler and magistrate over us? Is it that you want to do away with me in which manner you did away yesterday the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely thus this thing has become apparent.
EXO 2:15 And Pharaoh heard this thing, and he sought to do away with Moses. But Moses withdrew from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian. And coming into the land of Midian, he sat at the well.
EXO 2:16 3588-1161 tw deAnd to the priest of Midian were seven daughters tending the sheep of their father Jethro. And they came to draw water until they filled the troughs to water the sheep of their father Jethro.
EXO 2:17 And coming, the shepherds cast them away. But Moses rose up to rescue them, and he drew water for them, and watered their sheep.
EXO 2:18 And they came to Reuel their father. And he said to them, Why is it that you hastened to come today?
EXO 2:19 3588 ai And they said, An Egyptian man rescued us from the shepherds, and drew water for us, and watered our sheep.
EXO 2:20 And he said to his daughters, And where is he, and why thus have you left the man? You call him indeed, that he may eat bread!
EXO 2:21 And Moses settled by the man. And he handed over Zipporah his daughter to Moses as wife.
EXO 2:22 And conceiving in the womb, the woman bore a son, and Moses named his name Gershom, saying that, I am a sojourner in an alien land. And still again conceiving, she bore a second son, and he called his name Eliezer, saying that, The God of my father, my helper, also rescued me from the hand of Pharaoh.
EXO 2:23 And after those many days the king of Egypt came to an end. And the sons of Israel groaned from the works, and yelled out. And their yell ascended to God because of the works.
EXO 2:24 And God listened to their moaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob.
EXO 2:25 And God looked upon the sons of Israel, and he was made known to them.
EXO 3:1 And Moses was tending the sheep of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the sheep by the wilderness. And he came unto the mountain of God - Horeb.
EXO 3:2 And appeared to him an angel of the LORD in flaming fire from out of the bush. And he saw that the bush burned with fire, but the bush did not incinerate.
EXO 3:3 And Moses said, Going by, I will see this great vision, why it is that the bush is not incinerated.
EXO 3:4 And as the LORD saw that he neared to see, the LORD called him from out of the bush, saying, Moses, Moses. And he said, What is it?
EXO 3:5 And he said, You should not approach here. Untie the sandal from your feet, for the place in which you stand is holy ground.
EXO 3:6 And he said to him, I am the God of your father - the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses turned his face, for he venerated to look in the presence of God.
EXO 3:7 And the LORD said to Moses, In seeing, I saw the ill-treatment of my people in Egypt, and their cry I have heard because of the foremen; for I have seen their grief.
EXO 3:8 And I came down to rescue them from out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to lead them from out of that land, and to bring them into a land good and populous; into a land flowing milk and honey; into the place of the Canaanites, and Hittites, and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Gergasites, and Hivites, and Jebusites.
EXO 3:9 And now, behold, the cry of the sons of Israel is come to me. And I have seen the affliction by which the Egyptians afflict them.
EXO 3:10 And now, come, I shall send you to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and you shall lead my people, the sons of Israel, from out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 3:11 And Moses said to God, Who am I, that I shall go to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and that I shall lead out the sons of Israel from out of the land of Egypt?
EXO 3:12 And God said to Moses, saying that, I will be with you. And this will be to you the sign that I send you out - in your leading my people from out of Egypt, and you shall serve to God in this mountain.
EXO 3:13 And Moses said to God, Behold, I will go to the sons of Israel, and I shall say to them, The God of our fathers sent me to you. And if they shall ask me, What is the name given to him? What shall I say to them?
EXO 3:14 And God said to Moses, I am the one being. And he said, Thus you shall say to the sons of Israel, The one being has sent me to you.
EXO 3:15 And God said again to Moses, Thus you shall say to the sons of Israel, The LORD God of our fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob sent me to you. This is my eternal name, and a memorial for generations to generations.
EXO 3:16 Going then, gather the council of elders of the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, The LORD God of our fathers appeared to me; the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, saying, In overseeing I have watched you, even as much as has come to pass to you in Egypt.
EXO 3:17 And he said, I will haul you from the ill treatment of the Egyptians into the land of the Canaanites, and Hittites, and Hivites, and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Gergasites, and Jebusites, into a land flowing milk and honey.
EXO 3:18 And they shall hearken to your voice. And you shall enter, and the council of elders of Israel, to Pharaoh king of Egypt. And you shall say to him, The LORD God of the Hebrews calls us. We shall go then on a three days journey into the wilderness, that we might sacrifice to the LORD our God.
EXO 3:19 But I know that Pharaoh king of Egypt will not let you go, unless going with a fortified hand,
EXO 3:20 and stretching out my hand to strike the Egyptians in all my wonders, which I will do among them. And after these things I will send you out.
EXO 3:21 And I will give favor to this people before the Egyptians. And whenever you might run from them, you will not go forth empty.
EXO 3:22 But a woman will ask from her neighbor and fellow tent-dweller for items of silver, and of gold, and clothes. And you will place them upon your sons, and upon your daughters; and you will despoil the Egyptians.
EXO 4:1 And Moses answered and said, If then they should not believe me, nor listen to my voice, for they shall say that, God appears not to you - what shall I say to them?
EXO 4:2 And the LORD said to him, What is this, the thing in your hand? And he said, A rod.
EXO 4:3 And he said to him, Toss it upon the ground! And he tossed it upon the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses fled from it.
EXO 4:4 And the LORD said to Moses, Stretch out the hand, and take hold of the tail (stretching out then the hand, he took hold of the tail, and it became a rod in his hand)
EXO 4:5 that they might trust in you that there appeared to you the LORD God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob!
EXO 4:6 And the LORD said to him again, Insert your hand into your bosom! And he inserted his hand into his bosom. And he brought it from out of his bosom, and his hand was leprous as snow.
EXO 4:7 And the LORD said again to him, Insert your hand into your bosom! And he inserted the hand into his bosom, and brought it from out of his bosom, and again it was restored unto the complexion of his flesh.
EXO 4:8 And if they do not believe you, nor hearken to the voice of the first sign, they will believe you by the voice of the second sign.
EXO 4:9 And it will be if they do not believe you in these two signs, nor hearken to your voice, you shall take from the water of the river, and shall pour it upon the dry land. And which ever water you should take from the river will be blood upon the dry land.
EXO 4:10 And Moses said to the LORD, I beseech, O LORD, I am not fit before yesterday, nor before the third day, nor from which time you began to speak to your attendant, for I am weak voiced and slow of tongue.
EXO 4:11 And the LORD said to Moses, Who gave man a mouth, and who made the hard of hearing and mute, the seeing and blind? Was it not I the LORD God?
EXO 4:12 And now go, and I will open your mouth, and I will instruct you what you will be about to speak!
EXO 4:13 And Moses said, I beseech, O LORD, to handpick another one able whom you shall send.
EXO 4:14 And the LORD being enraged in anger over Moses, said, Behold, is not Aaron your brother, the Levite? I know that speaking, he will speak to you. And behold, he will come forth to meet you; and seeing you, he will rejoice in himself.
EXO 4:15 And you will speak to him, and you will put my words into his mouth. And I will open your mouth and his mouth, and I will instruct you what you shall do.
EXO 4:16 And he shall speak the things to the people. And he will be your mouth, but you will be to him the things for God.
EXO 4:17 And this rod turning into a serpent you shall take in your hand, in which you will do the signs by it.
EXO 4:18 And Moses went, and returned to Jethro his father-in-law. And he says, I will go and return to my brothers in Egypt, and I will see if they still live. And Jethro said to Moses, Proceed, be in health! But after those many days the king of Egypt came to an end.
EXO 4:19 And the LORD said to Moses in the land of Midian, Proceed, go forth into Egypt, for have died all the ones seeking your life!
EXO 4:20 And Moses took up his wife, and the male children, and hauled them upon the beasts of burden, and turned to Egypt. And Moses took the rod by God in his hand.
EXO 4:21 And the LORD said to Moses, In your going and returning unto Egypt, discover all the miracles which I have put in your hand, to do them before Pharaoh. But I will harden his heart, and no way shall he send out the people.
EXO 4:22 But you will say to Pharaoh, Thus says the LORD; son of my first-born - Israel.
EXO 4:23 And I said to you, Send my people that they should serve to me! If indeed then you should not be willing to send them, see then, I will kill your son, the first-born!
EXO 4:24 And it came to pass during the journey in the lodging, an angel of the LORD met him, and sought to kill him.
EXO 4:25 And Zipporah, taking a small sharp stone, circumcised the foreskin of her son. And she fell at his feet, and said, The blood of the circumcision of my male child is stopped.
EXO 4:26 And the angel went forth from him, for she said, The blood of the circumcision of my male child is stopped.
EXO 4:27 And the LORD said to Aaron, Go to meet with Moses in the wilderness! And he went and met with him in the mountain of God, and they kissed one another.
EXO 4:28 And Moses announced to Aaron all the words of the LORD which he sent to him, and all the signs which he gave charge to him.
EXO 4:29 And Moses and Aaron went and brought together the council of elders of the sons of Israel.
EXO 4:30 And Aaron spoke all the words which God spoke to Moses, and did the signs before the people.
EXO 4:31 And the people believed; and they rejoiced that God visited the sons of Israel, and that he saw their affliction. And bowing, the people did obeisance.
EXO 5:1 And after these things Moses and Aaron entered to Pharaoh. And they said to him, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, Send forth my people, that they may solemnize a holiday to me in the wilderness!
EXO 5:2 And Pharaoh said, Who is he, of whom I will listen to his voice, so as to send out the sons of Israel? I do not know the LORD, and I will not send out Israel.
EXO 5:3 And they say to him, The God of the Hebrews called on us. We will go then on a journey of three days into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God, lest at any time death or murder might meet with us.
EXO 5:4 And the king of Egypt said to them, Why do you, Moses and Aaron, turn aside the people from the works? Go forth each of you to his works!
EXO 5:5 And Pharaoh said, Behold, now The people of the land are numerous; I shall not then rest them from the works.
EXO 5:6 And Pharaoh gave orders to the foremen of the people, and to the scribes, saying,
EXO 5:7 No longer will it be added to give straw to the people for the brickmaking as yesterday and the third day before. Let them go and bring together for themselves the straw!
EXO 5:8 And the rate of the making of bricks which they produce each day, you shall put it upon them. You shall not remove any of them, for they are idle. On account of this they cry out, saying, We should go and sacrifice to our God.
EXO 5:9 Let the works of these men be oppressive, and let these men be anxious, and not anxious in empty words!
EXO 5:10 And their foremen and the scribes of the people hastened. And they said to the people, saying, Thus says Pharaoh, No longer do I give to you straw.
EXO 5:11 You yourselves in going collect together for yourselves straw from where ever you should find! For not is one thing removed from your rate.
EXO 5:12 And he dispersed the people in the entire land of Egypt to gather together stubble for straw.
EXO 5:13 But the foremen hastened them, saying, You complete the works fit according to the day, just as also when the straw was given to you.
EXO 5:14 And the scribes of the race of the sons of Israel were whipped - the ones being placed over them by the supervisors of Pharaoh, who were saying, Why did you not complete your rate of the making of bricks as also yesterday, and the third day before, and today?
EXO 5:15 And entering, the scribes of the sons of Israel yelled out to Pharaoh, saying, Why do you thus do to your servants?
EXO 5:16 Straw has not been given to your servants, and they tell us to make brick. And behold, your servants have been whipped. Shall you wrong therefore your people?
EXO 5:17 And he said to them, You are idle, you are idlers. Because of this you say, We should go, we should sacrifice to the LORD.
EXO 5:18 Now then, in going, work! For the straw shall not be given to you, and the rate for the making of bricks you shall render.
EXO 5:19 And the scribes of the sons of Israel seeing themselves in bad ways, in the saying, You shall not leave off from the making of bricks fit for the day;
EXO 5:20 that they met Moses and Aaron coming to meet with them in their going forth from Pharaoh.
EXO 5:21 And they said to them, God give You over and judge, for you caused our scent to be abhorred before Pharaoh, and before his attendants, to put a broadsword into his hands to kill us.
EXO 5:22 And Moses turned to the LORD, and said, O LORD, for why did you inflict evil on this people? And why have you sent me?
EXO 5:23 And when I went to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he inflicted evil on this people, and you did not rescue your people.
EXO 6:1 And the LORD said to Moses, Already you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a fortified hand he shall send them; and with a high arm he will cast them from out of his land.
EXO 6:2 And God spoke to Moses, and said to him, I am the LORD.
EXO 6:3 And I appeared to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, being their God. And my name, the LORD, was not manifested to them.
EXO 6:4 And I established my covenant with them, so as to give to them the land of Canaan, the land which they sojourned, in which also they sojourned upon it.
EXO 6:5 And I hearkened to the moaning of the sons of Israel, in which the Egyptians reduced them to slavery. And I remembered your covenant - my covenant..
EXO 6:6 Proceed, speak to the sons of Israel! saying, I am the LORD, and I will lead you from the domination of the Egyptians, and I will rescue you from their slavery, and I will ransom you with a high arm, and great judgment.
EXO 6:7 And I will take you to myself as a people to me. And I will be your God. And you will know that I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the tyranny of the Egyptians.
EXO 6:8 And I will bring you into the land in which I stretched out my hand to give it to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. And I will give it to you by lot. I am the LORD.
EXO 6:9 And Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel. And they did not hearken to Moses because of the faint-heartedness, and because of the hard works.
EXO 6:10 And the LORD said to Moses, saying,
EXO 6:11 Enter, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he may send out the sons of Israel from his land!
EXO 6:12 And Moses spoke before the LORD, saying, Behold, the sons of Israel do not listen to me, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me, for I am not reckoned?
EXO 6:13 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, and ordered them to Pharaoh king of Egypt, so as to lead out the sons of Israel from out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 6:14 And these are the chiefs of the houses of their families. The sons of Reuben first-born of Israel - Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; this is the kin of Reuben.
EXO 6:15 And the sons of Simeon - Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the one from the Phoenician woman; these are the families of the sons of Simeon.
EXO 6:16 And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their kin - Gershon, Kohath and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi - a hundred thirty-seven years.
EXO 6:17 And these are the sons of Gershon - Libni and Shimei; the houses of their family.
EXO 6:18 And the sons of Kohath - Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath - a hundred thirty-three years.
EXO 6:19 And the sons of Merari - Mahli, and Mushi; these are the houses of the families of Levi, according to their kin.
EXO 6:20 And Amram took Jochebed daughter of the brother of his father to himself for a wife. And she bore to him also Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam their sister. And the years of the life of Amram - a hundred thirty-seven years.
EXO 6:21 And the sons of Izhar - Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
EXO 6:22 And the sons of Uzziel - Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.
EXO 6:23 And Aaron took Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naahshon, to himself as wife. And she bore to him also Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.
EXO 6:24 And the sons of Korah - Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the generations of Korah.
EXO 6:25 And Eleazar the son of Aaron took of the daughters of Putiel to himself as wife. And she bore to him Phinehas. These are the heads of the family of the Levites, according to their generations.
EXO 6:26 This Aaron and Moses, is whom God said to them to lead the sons of Israel from out of Egypt with their force.
EXO 6:27 These are the ones reasoning with Pharaoh king of Egypt, so as to lead the sons of Israel from out of Egypt - Aaron himself and Moses,
EXO 6:28 in the day the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt.
EXO 6:29 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, I am the LORD. Speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt as much as I tell to you!
EXO 6:30 And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am weak-voiced, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?
EXO 7:1 And the LORD said to Moses, saying, Behold, I have made you as a god to Pharaoh, and Aaron your brother will be your prophet.
EXO 7:2 But you shall speak to him all as much as I give charge to you. But Aaron your brother will speak to Pharaoh, so as to send the sons of Israel from out of his land.
EXO 7:3 But I will harden the heart of Pharaoh, and I will multiply my signs, and the miracles in the land of Egypt.
EXO 7:4 And Pharaoh will not listen to you. And I will put my hand against Egypt. And I will lead out with my power my people, the sons of Israel, from out of the land of Egypt with great punishment.
EXO 7:5 And all the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, stretching out my hand against Egypt. And I will lead the sons of Israel from their midst.
EXO 7:6 And Moses and Aaron did just as the LORD gave charge to them - thus they did.
EXO 7:7 And Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron was eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh.
EXO 7:8 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, saying,
EXO 7:9 And if Pharaoh should speak to you, saying, Give to us a sign or miracle, then your brother Aaron shall say, Take the rod and toss it upon the ground before Pharaoh, and before his attendants, and it will be a serpent.
EXO 7:10 And Moses and Aaron entered before Pharaoh and his attendants. And they did thus as the LORD gave charge to them. And Aaron tossed the rod before Pharaoh, and before his attendants. And it became a serpent.
EXO 7:11 And Pharaoh called together the wise men of Egypt, and the sorcerers. And the enchanters of the Egyptians also did their sorceries likewise.
EXO 7:12 And each tossed his rod, and they became serpents. And the rod of Aaron swallowed down the rods of those men.
EXO 7:13 And the heart of Pharaoh grew strong, and he listened not to them as the LORD said to them.
EXO 7:14 And the LORD said to Moses, The heart of Pharaoh is weighed down to not send out the people.
EXO 7:15 You proceed to Pharaoh in the morning! Behold, he will go forth unto the water. And you will be able to meet him upon the edge of the river. And the rod turning into a serpent, you shall take in your hand!
EXO 7:16 And you shall say to him, The LORD God of the Hebrews has sent me to you, saying, Send out my people that they may serve to me in the wilderness! And behold, you hearkened not unto this.
EXO 7:17 Thus says the LORD, In this you will know that I am the LORD. Behold, I strike with the rod in my hand upon the water in the river, and it will turn into blood.
EXO 7:18 And the fishes in the river shall come to an end; and the river will stink, and the Egyptians will not be able to drink water from the river.
EXO 7:19 And the LORD said to Moses, Say to Aaron your brother, Take your rod, and stretch out your hand upon the waters of Egypt, and upon their rivers, and upon their aqueducts, and upon their marshes, and upon all their standing water; and there will be blood in all the land of Egypt, in both the wood vessels and in the stone vessels.
EXO 7:20 And Moses and Aaron did so, just as the LORD gave charge to them. And Aaron lifting his rod, struck the water in the river before Pharaoh, and before his attendants. And all the water in the river turned into blood.
EXO 7:21 And the fishes in the river came to an end. And the river stunk. And the Egyptians were not able to drink water from out of the river. And the blood was in all the land of Egypt.
EXO 7:22 And also the enchanters of the Egyptians did likewise in their sorceries. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened. And he listened not to them; just as the LORD said.
EXO 7:23 And Pharaoh turned to enter into his house, and he set not his mind neither upon this thing.
EXO 7:24 And all the Egyptians dug round about the river so as to drink water; and they were not able to drink water from the river.
EXO 7:25 And seven days were fulfilled after the LORD struck the river.
EXO 8:1 And the LORD said to Moses, Enter to Pharaoh! And you shall say to him, Thus says the LORD, Send out my people that they may serve me!
EXO 8:2 But if you should not be willing to send, behold, I strike all your boundaries with frogs.
EXO 8:3 And the river will discharge forth frogs. And in ascending, they shall enter into your houses, and into the closets of your bedrooms, and upon your beds, and into the houses of your attendants, and your people, and in your batches of flour, and in your ovens.
EXO 8:4 And upon you, and upon your people, and upon your attendants the frogs will ascend.
EXO 8:5 And the LORD said to Moses, Say to Aaron your brother! Stretch forth in your hand the rod upon the rivers, and upon the aqueducts, and upon the marshes, and lead the frogs!
EXO 8:6 And Aaron stretched out his hand upon the waters of Egypt, and led the frogs. And the frog was brought up, and covered all the land of Egypt.
EXO 8:7 And the enchanters of the Egyptians did likewise also with their sorceries, and led the frogs upon the land of Egypt.
EXO 8:8 And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and said, Make a vow for me to the LORD, and remove the frogs from me, and from my people, and I will send the people, and they shall sacrifice to the LORD!
EXO 8:9 And Moses said to Pharaoh, Order for me when should I make a vow for you, and for your attendants, and your people, to remove from view the frogs from you, and from your people, and from your houses - except for the ones in the river which shall be left behind!
EXO 8:10 And he said, During tomorrow. He said therefore, As you have said, that you might see that there is not another besides the LORD.
EXO 8:11 And the frogs shall be removed from you, and from your houses, and from your attendants, and from your people, only the ones in the river will be left behind.
EXO 8:12 And Moses and Aaron went forth from Pharaoh. And Moses yelled out to the LORD concerning the enactment of the frogs, as Pharaoh arranged.
EXO 8:13 And the LORD did just as Moses said, and the frogs came to an end from out of the houses, and from out of the properties, and from out of the fields.
EXO 8:14 And they brought them heaps upon heaps, and the land stunk.
EXO 8:15 And Pharaoh seeing that there came to pass a respite, his heart was weighed down, and he hearkened not to them; just as the LORD said.
EXO 8:16 And the LORD said to Moses, Say to Aaron! Stretch out the hand, the one of your rod, and strike the embankment of the land, and there will be midges in all the land of Egypt!
EXO 8:17 Then Aaron stretched out the rod with the hand, and he struck the embankment of the earth. And there were the midges among both the men and among also the four-footed creatures. And among all embankments of the land there were the midges in all the land of Egypt.
EXO 8:18 And the enchanters also did likewise in their sorceries, to lead out the midge - but they were not able. And there were midges among both men, and among the four-footed creatures.
EXO 8:19 And the enchanters said then to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he listened not to them; just as the LORD said.
EXO 8:20 And the LORD said to Moses, Rise early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh! And behold, he will come forth near the water. And you shall say to him, Thus says the LORD, Send out my people that they shall serve me in the wilderness!
EXO 8:21 But if you do not want to send out my people, behold, I will send upon you, and upon your attendants, and upon your people, and upon your houses the dog-fly. And the houses of the Egyptians shall be filled with the dog-fly, and into the land upon which they are upon it.
EXO 8:22 And I will do an incredible thing in that day in the land of Goshen, upon which my people are upon it; upon which there will not be there the dog-fly, that you may know that I am the LORD of all the earth.
EXO 8:23 And I will make a difference between my people, and between your people. And in the next morning this will be the sign upon the land.
EXO 8:24 And the LORD did so. And the dog-fly came in multitude in the houses of Pharaoh, and in the houses of his attendants, and in all the land of Egypt. And the land was utterly destroyed because of the dog-fly.
EXO 8:25 And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, saying, In going, you sacrifice to your God in the land!
EXO 8:26 And Moses said, It is not possible to be so. For the abominations of the Egyptians we sacrifice to the LORD our God. For if we should sacrifice the abominations of the Egyptians before them, we shall have stones thrown at us.
EXO 8:27 A journey of three days we shall go into the wilderness, and we shall sacrifice to the LORD our God, just as he told us.
EXO 8:28 And Pharaoh said, I shall send you, and you sacrifice to the LORD your God in the wilderness! But do not go to extend far away! Make a vow then for me to the LORD!
EXO 8:29 And Moses said, Behold, I will go forth from you, and I will make a vow to God, and the dog-fly shall go forth from you, and from your attendants, and from your people tomorrow. You should not add again, O Pharaoh, to deceive completely, to not send out the people to sacrifice to the LORD.
EXO 8:30 And Moses went forth from Pharaoh, and made a vow to God.
EXO 8:31 And the LORD did just as Moses said. And he removed the dog-fly from Pharaoh, and from his attendants, and from his people; and he left behind not even one.
EXO 8:32 And Pharaoh was oppressed in his heart also at this time, and he did not want to send out the people.
EXO 9:1 And the LORD said to Moses, Enter to Pharaoh! And you shall say to him, Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews, Send out my people that they may serve to me!
EXO 9:2 For if then you do not want to send out my people, but still to have power over them,
EXO 9:3 behold, the hand of the LORD will be against your cattle in the plains, and against also the horses, and against the beasts of burden, and the camels, and oxen, and sheep, by an exceedingly great plague.
EXO 9:4 And I will do an incredible thing, even I in that time, between the cattle of the Egyptians, and between the cattle of the sons of Israel. And there shall not come to an end of any of the ones of the sons of Israel in particular.
EXO 9:5 And God gave confirmation, saying, In the next morning the LORD will do this thing upon the land.
EXO 9:6 And the LORD did this thing in the next day. And there came to an end all the cattle of the Egyptians. But of the cattle of the sons of Israel they did not come to an end - not one.
EXO 9:7 And Pharaoh seeing that not any came to an end from all of the cattle of the sons of Israel - not one, the heart of Pharaoh was oppressed, and he did not send out the people.
EXO 9:8 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, Take with you hands full of soot of a furnace! And let Moses strew it into the heaven before Pharaoh, and before his attendants!
EXO 9:9 And let there become a cloud of dust upon all the land of Egypt! And there will be upon men and upon the four-footed creatures sores of boils breaking out among both men, and among the four-footed creatures, and in all the land of Egypt.
EXO 9:10 And they took the soot of the furnace before Pharaoh. And Moses strew it into the heaven; and there became sores of boils breaking out among both men, and among the four-footed creatures.
EXO 9:11 And the sorcerers were not able to stand before Moses on account of the sores; for the sores happened among the sorcerers, and in all the land of Egypt.
EXO 9:12 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not to them; as the LORD ordered to Moses.
EXO 9:13 And the LORD said to Moses, Rise early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh! And you shall say to him, Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews, Send out my people that they may serve to me!
EXO 9:14 For in the present time I will send out all my events into your heart, and your attendants, and your people, that you might see that there is not another as I in all the earth.
EXO 9:15 For now, sending my hand, I will strike you; and your people I shall put to death; and I will obliterate you from the earth.
EXO 9:16 And because of this you were carefully kept, that I might demonstrate in you my strength, and how my name should be declared in all the earth.
EXO 9:17 Still then you cause my people for them to not be sent out.
EXO 9:18 Behold, I rain this hour tomorrow exceedingly great hail, in which such has not happened in Egypt from which day it was created, and until this day.
EXO 9:19 Now then, hasten to bring together your cattle, and as much as is to you in the plain! For all the men, and the cattle, as much as might be found in the plains, and what might not enter into a residence, and what hail should have fallen upon them, he will come to an end.
EXO 9:20 The ones fearing the word of the LORD of the attendants of Pharaoh brought together their cattle into the houses.
EXO 9:21 And he who did not take heed to the thought unto the word of the LORD - allowed the cattle to stay in the plains.
EXO 9:22 And the LORD said to Moses, Stretch out your hand unto heaven, and there will be hail upon all the land of Egypt, upon both the men, and the cattle, and upon all pasturage upon the land!
EXO 9:23 And Moses stretched out his hand unto the heaven. And the LORD gave sounds and hail, And fire ran across upon the earth; and the LORD rained hail upon all the land of Egypt.
EXO 9:24 And there was hail, and the fire blazing in the hail. And the hail was great - exceedingly, in which such had not happened in Egypt from when there was a nation upon it.
EXO 9:25 And the hail struck in all the land of Egypt, all as much as was in the plain, from man unto beast. And all pasturage in the plain the hail struck. And all the trees in the plains broke.
EXO 9:26 Except in the land of Goshen, of which were the sons of Israel, there was not hail.
EXO 9:27 And Pharaoh sending, called Moses and Aaron, and said to them, I have sinned now; the LORD is just, but I and my people are impious.
EXO 9:28 Make a vow then to the LORD, and let the sounds of God cease to happen, and the hail and fire! and I will send you out, and no longer will I insist for you to remain.
EXO 9:29 And Moses said to him, Whenever I should go from the city, I will spread forth my hands to the LORD, and the sounds will cease; and the hail and the rain will not be any longer, that you may know that the earth is of the LORD.
EXO 9:30 And you and your attendants - I know that you do not yet fear the LORD.
EXO 9:31 And the flax and the barley were struck; for the barley was standing, and the flax was seeding.
EXO 9:32 And the wheat and the wild oat were not struck, for it was late.
EXO 9:33 And Moses went forth from Pharaoh outside of the city. And he spread forth the hands to the LORD, and the sounds ceased, and the hail, and the rain did not drip any longer upon the land.
EXO 9:34 And Pharaoh seeing that the rain has been ceased, and the hail, and the sounds, he added to sin. And his heart was oppressed, and the ones of his attendants.
EXO 9:35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not send out the sons of Israel; just as the LORD said to Moses.
EXO 10:1 And the LORD said to Moses, saying, Enter to Pharaoh! For I oppressed his heart, and the heart of his attendants, that these signs should come next upon them;
EXO 10:2 that you may describe them into the ears of your children, and to the children of your children, as much as I mocked the Egyptians, and my signs which I did among them; and you will know that it is I \Gr eimi - I am. the LORD.
EXO 10:3 And Moses and Aaron entered before Pharaoh, and said to him, Thus says the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, Until when will you not shame me? Send out my people, that they may serve to me!
EXO 10:4 But if you should not want to send out my people, behold, I will bring this in the hour tomorrow - much locust upon all your boundaries.
EXO 10:5 And the appearance of the earth will be covered, and you will not be able to look down at the ground, and all the extra will be eaten up - the thing being left behind which the hail left behind for you. And will be eaten up every tree germinating of yours upon the land.
EXO 10:6 And I will fill your houses, and the houses of your attendants, and all the houses in all the land of the Egyptians, which at no time have your fathers seen, nor their forefathers, from which day they were upon the land, until this day. And turning aside he went forth from Pharaoh.
EXO 10:7 And the attendants of Pharaoh say to him, For how long will this be to us an impediment? Send out the men so that they may serve to the LORD their God! Or do you prefer to see that they destroy Egypt?
EXO 10:8 And both Moses and Aaron returned to Pharaoh. And he said to them, Go, and serve to the LORD your God! But which, and who are the ones going?
EXO 10:9 And Moses says, With the young and the older we will go; with our sons, and daughters, and sheep, and our oxen; for it is the holiday of the LORD our God.
EXO 10:10 And he said to them, Let it be so! The LORD be with you, in so far as I send you; but should also your belongings? See, for wickedness lies near to you!
EXO 10:11 Not so, let the men go forth and serve to God, for this they seek after! And they cast them from the face of Pharaoh.
EXO 10:12 And the LORD said to Moses, Stretch out your hand upon the land of Egypt, and let the locust ascend upon the land; and it will eat up all the pasturage of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail left behind!
EXO 10:13 And Moses stretched out the rod into the heaven, and the LORD brought the south wind upon the land that entire day, and entire night. In the morning came the south wind lifting up the locust.
EXO 10:14 And he led it upon all the land of Egypt. And it rested upon all the boundaries of Egypt - many, exceedingly. Prior of them there were not such locust, and after this there will not be so.
EXO 10:15 And they covered the appearance of the land, and corrupted the land, and ate up all the pasturage of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which were left behind from the hail. There was not left a green thing, not one thing among the trees, even in all the pasturage of the plain in all the land of Egypt.
EXO 10:16 And Pharaoh hastened to call Moses and Aaron, saying, I have sinned before the LORD your God, and against you.
EXO 10:17 Favorably receive then my sin still now, and pray to the LORD your God, and remove from me this plague!
EXO 10:18 And Moses went forth from Pharaoh, and made a vow to God.
EXO 10:19 And the LORD turned a vehement wind from the sea, and it took up the locust, and cast it into the red sea. And there was not left behind one locust in all the land of Egypt.
EXO 10:20 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not send out the sons of Israel.
EXO 10:21 And the LORD said to Moses, Stretch out the hand into the heaven, and let darkness become upon the land of Egypt - a tangible darkness!
EXO 10:22 And Moses stretched out the hand unto the heaven. And there was darkness, dimness, and a storm upon all the land of Egypt for three days.
EXO 10:23 And not did anyone know his brother, and not did anyone rise up from his bed for three days. But to all the sons of Israel there was light in all places in which they occupied.
EXO 10:24 And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, saying, Proceed, serve to the LORD your God, only the sheep and the oxen leave behind! But let your belongings run with you!
EXO 10:25 And Moses said, But also you shall give us means for whole burnt offerings and sacrifice offerings, which we will make to the LORD our God.
EXO 10:26 And our cattle shall go with us, and we shall not leave behind a hoof; for of them we shall take to serve the LORD our God; but we know not how we shall serve the LORD our God until our arriving there.
EXO 10:27 But the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not want to send them.
EXO 10:28 And Pharaoh says, Go forth from me! Take heed to yourself yet to add to see my face, for whatever day you should see me, you shall die!
EXO 10:29 And Moses says, As you have said, no longer shall I appear to you in person.
EXO 11:1 And the LORD said to Moses, Still one more calamity I will bring upon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt, and after this he will send you from here. And whenever he should send you, he will cast you by expulsion with all your things.
EXO 11:2 You speak then secretly into the ears of the people! And let each man ask from the neighbor, and each woman from the neighbor, items of silver and of gold, and clothes!
EXO 11:3 And the LORD gave favor to his people before the Egyptians, and they treated them. And the man Moses became exceedingly great before the Egyptians, and before Pharaoh, and before his attendants.
EXO 11:4 And Moses said, Thus says the LORD, Around the middle of the night I will enter into the midst of Egypt.
EXO 11:5 And every first-born in the land of Egypt shall come to an end, from the first-born of Pharaoh who sits down upon the throne, and unto the first-born of the female attendant by the millstone, and unto the first-born of every beast.
EXO 11:6 And there will be a great cry by all the land of Egypt, in which such as was not, and such as no longer shall be added.
EXO 11:7 But among all the sons of Israel there shall not growl even a dog with its tongue, from man unto beast; so that you may see as much as the LORD does an incredible thing between the Egyptians and Israel.
EXO 11:8 And all these your servants shall descend to me, and shall do obeisance to me, saying, You go forth, and all your people whom you guide! And after these things I will go forth. And Moses went forth from Pharaoh with rage.
EXO 11:9 And the LORD said to Moses, Pharaoh will not listen to you; that I might multiply my signs, and my miracles in the land of Egypt.
EXO 11:10 And Moses and Aaron did all these miracles in the land of Egypt before Pharaoh. And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not want to send the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 12:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
EXO 12:2 This month is to you the beginning of months. It is to you the first among the months of the year.
EXO 12:3 Speak to all the gathering of the sons of Israel! saying, The tenth of this month, let each take a sheep according to the houses of the families - a sheep according to a house!
EXO 12:4 But if there should be very few in the house, so as not to be enough for the sheep, he shall include with himself the neighbor neighboring him, according to the number of souls, each sufficient for him to be counted for the sheep.
EXO 12:5 It shall be to you a perfect male unblemished sheep of a year old; from the lambs and from the kids you shall take.
EXO 12:6 And it will be to you for carefully keeping until the fourteenth of this month. And they shall slay it - all the multitude of the gathering of the sons of Israel towards evening.
EXO 12:7 And they shall take from the blood, and they shall put it upon the two doorposts, and upon the lintel on the houses in which they should eat them in them.
EXO 12:8 And they shall eat the meats in this night, roasted by fire; and unleavened breads with bitter herbs they shall eat.
EXO 12:9 You shall not eat of them raw, nor being boiled in water, but roasted by fire, head with the feet, and the entrails.
EXO 12:10 You shall not leave anything from it into the morning. And you shall not break a bone of it. And the things being left behind from it unto morning you shall incinerate in fire.
EXO 12:11 And thus shall you eat it - with your loins girded, and the sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hands; and you shall eat it with haste - it is the passover of the LORD.
EXO 12:12 And I shall go through in the land of Egypt in this night. And I shall strike all first-born in the land of Egypt, from man unto beast. And among all the gods of the Egyptians I will execute punishment - I the LORD.
EXO 12:13 And the blood shall be to you for a sign upon the houses in which you are there. And I will see the blood and shelter you; and there shall not be to you a calamity of the obliteration, whenever I smite in the land of Egypt.
EXO 12:14 And this day shall be to you a memorial. And you shall solemnize it a holiday to the LORD unto your generations; an eternal law you shall solemnize it.
EXO 12:15 Seven days you shall eat unleavened breads; and from the first day you shall remove yeast from your houses. All who ever shall eat yeast, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from out of Israel; it shall be from the first day until the seventh day.
EXO 12:16 And the first day shall be called holy. And the seventh day shall be called holy to you. All servile work shall not be done in them, except as much as is necessary to do for every soul - this only shall be done by you.
EXO 12:17 And you shall guard this commandment. For in this day I will lead your force from out of the land of Egypt. And you shall appoint this day into your generations as an eternal law.
EXO 12:18 Commencing the fourteenth day of the first month, from evening you shall eat unleavened breads until the first and twentieth day of the month, until evening.
EXO 12:19 For seven days yeast shall not be found in your houses. All whosoever should eat leavened bread, that soul shall utterly be destroyed from out of the congregation of Israel, unto both foreigners and native born of the land.
EXO 12:20 Anything leavened you shall not eat. In every home of yours you shall eat unleavened breads.
EXO 12:21 And Moses called the whole council of elders of Israel, and said to them, Going forth, take to yourselves a sheep according to your kin, and sacrifice the passover!
EXO 12:22 But you shall take a bundle of hyssop; and having dipped it from the blood by the door, you shall place it on the lintel, and upon both of the doorposts, of the blood which is by the door. And you shall not go forth each from the door of his house until morning.
EXO 12:23 And the LORD will go by to strike the Egyptians. And he shall see the blood upon the lintel, and upon both of the doorposts. And the LORD will go by the door, and will not leave off the annihilating so as to enter into your house to strike.
EXO 12:24 And you shall guard this thing for the law to yourself, and to your sons unto the eon.
EXO 12:25 And if you should enter into the land which ever the LORD should give to you, in so far as he spoke, you shall guard this service.
EXO 12:26 And it will be, if your sons should say to you, What is this service?
EXO 12:27 That you shall say to them, This is the passover sacrifice offering to the LORD, as he sheltered the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians, but our houses he rescued. And bowing, the people did obeisance.
EXO 12:28 And going forth, the sons of Israel did as the LORD gave charge to Moses and Aaron - so they did.
EXO 12:29 And it happened in the middle of the night, and the LORD struck all the first-born in the land of Egypt, from the first-born of Pharaoh, the one sitting upon the throne, unto the first-born of the captive in the pit; and every first-born of the beast.
EXO 12:30 And Pharaoh rose up at night, and all his attendants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in all the land of Egypt; for there was not a house in which there was not one dying in it.
EXO 12:31 And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron at night, and said to them, Rise up, and go forth from my people, both you and the sons of Israel! Proceed and serve to the LORD your God, as you say!
EXO 12:32 And the sheep and the oxen of yours, in taking up, go, just as you say! And bless also me!
EXO 12:33 And the Egyptians constrained the people with diligence to cast them from the land; for they said that, We all shall die.
EXO 12:34 And the people took their dough before the leavening of their batches, being bound in their cloaks upon their shoulders.
EXO 12:35 And the sons of Israel did as Moses ordered them. And they asked from the Egyptians items of silver, and of gold, and clothes.
EXO 12:36 And the LORD gave favor to his people before the Egyptians, and they furnished to them. And they despoiled the Egyptians.
EXO 12:37 And the sons of Israel departing from out of Rameses into Succoth - to the number of six hundred thousand footmen, the males, besides the belongings.
EXO 12:38 And a great intermixed company went up with them, and sheep, and oxen, and cattle - many exceedingly.
EXO 12:39 And they baked the dough which they brought from out of Egypt - unleavened cakes baked in hot ashes, for it was not leavened; because the Egyptians cast them out, and they were not able to remain, nor to prepare provisions for themselves for the journey.
EXO 12:40 And the dwelling of the sons of Israel, which they dwelt in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, they and their fathers - four hundred thirty years.
EXO 12:41 And it came to pass after the four hundred and thirty year, came forth all the force of the LORD from out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 12:42 It is a night post to the LORD, so as to lead them from out of the land of Egypt. That night itself is a post to the LORD, so as to be to all the sons of Israel into their generations.
EXO 12:43 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, This is the law of the passover. Every foreigner shall not eat of it.
EXO 12:44 And every domestic servant, any which was bought with silver, you shall circumcise him, and then he shall eat of it.
EXO 12:45 Sojourner or hireling shall not eat of it.
EXO 12:46 In one house it shall be eaten, and you shall not bring forth from the house of any of the meats outside, and you shall not break a bone of it.
EXO 12:47 Every gathering of the sons of Israel shall do it.
EXO 12:48 And if any convert should come forward to you, and should observe the passover to the LORD, you shall circumcise every male of his, and then he shall come forward to do it. And he will be as also the native born of the land. Every uncircumcised one shall not eat of it.
EXO 12:49 There shall be one law to the native inhabitant, and to the one coming forward to convert among you.
EXO 12:50 And the sons of Israel did as the LORD gave charge to Moses and Aaron to them - so they did.
EXO 12:51 And it came to pass in that day, the LORD led out the sons of Israel from out of the land of Egypt with their force.
EXO 13:1 And the LORD said to Moses, saying,
EXO 13:2 Sanctify to me every first-born, first-born of its kind opening wide every womb among the sons of Israel, from man unto beast - it is mine.
EXO 13:3 And Moses said to the people, Remember this day in which you came forth from out of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery; for with a fortified hand the LORD led you from here, and you shall not eat yeast.
EXO 13:4 For today you go forth in the new month.
EXO 13:5 And it will be when ever the LORD your God should bring you into the land of the Canaanites, and Hittites, and Amorites, and Hivites, and Jebusites, and Gergasites, and Perizzites, which he swore by an oath to your fathers to give to you a land flowing milk and honey, then you shall do this service in this month.
EXO 13:6 Six days you shall eat unleavened breads, but the seventh day is a holiday of the LORD.
EXO 13:7 Unleavened bread shall you eat seven days. There shall not be seen in you leavened bread, nor shall there be to you yeast in all your boundaries.
EXO 13:8 And you shall announce to your son in that day, saying, Concerning this the LORD God did to me as I went forth from out of Egypt.
EXO 13:9 And it will be to you for a sign upon your hand, and a memorial before your eyes, that the law of the LORD may be in your mouth. For with a fortified hand the LORD led you from out of Egypt.
EXO 13:10 And you shall guard this law according to times of hours, from days to days.
EXO 13:11 And it shall be whenever the LORD your God should bring you into the land of the Canaanites, in which manner he swore by an oath to your fathers, and shall give it to you,
EXO 13:12 that you shall separate every offspring opening wide the womb - the males to the LORD; every offspring opening wide the womb from out of the herds among your cattle. As many as come to pass to you, the males are to the LORD.
EXO 13:13 Every newborn opening wide the womb of donkey you shall barter for sheep. But if you should not barter you shall ransom it. Every first-born of man of your sons you shall ransom.
EXO 13:14 And if your son should ask you about these, saying, What is this? And you shall say to him, that, With a fortified hand the LORD led you from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery.
EXO 13:15 And when he hardened Pharaoh to send us, the LORD slew all the first-born in the land of Egypt, from the first-born of men, unto the first-born of cattle. On account of this I sacrifice to the LORD every offspring opening wide the womb - the males to the LORD; and every first-born of my sons I will ransom.
EXO 13:16 And it shall be for a sign upon your hand, and unshaken before your eyes. For by a fortified hand the LORD led you from out of Egypt.
EXO 13:17 And as Pharaoh sent out the people, God did not guide them in the way of the land of the Philistines, for it was near; for God said, Lest at any time the people should regret seeing war, and they should return into Egypt.
EXO 13:18 But God circled the people in the way into the wilderness, to the red sea. And in the fifth generation the sons of Israel ascended from out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him; for with an oath Joseph bound the sons of Israel, saying, With a visit the LORD will visit you, and you shall join in carrying off my bones from here with you.
EXO 13:20 And the sons of Israel lifted away from out of Succoth, and encamped in Etham by the wilderness.
EXO 13:21 But God led them by day, indeed by a column of cloud to show to them the way; but in the night by a column of fire.
EXO 13:22 The column of cloud did not fail by day, and the column of fire by night, before all the people.
EXO 14:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 14:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And turning let them encamp before the property between Migdol and between the sea, right opposite Baal-Zephon! Before them you shall encamp by the sea.
EXO 14:3 And Pharaoh will say concerning the sons of Israel, These wander in the land, for the wilderness has closed them up.
EXO 14:4 But I will harden the heart of Pharaoh, and he will pursue after them, and I will be glorified by Pharaoh, and by all his military; and all the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD. And they did thus.
EXO 14:5 And it was announced to the king of the Egyptians that the people have fled. And the heart of Pharaoh was converted, and the hearts of his attendants against the people. And they said, What is this we have done, to send out the sons of Israel to not slave to us?
EXO 14:6 Pharaoh then teamed up his chariots, and led all his people with himself.
EXO 14:7 And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the cavalry of the Egyptians, and tribunes over all.
EXO 14:8 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the sons of Israel. But the sons of Israel went with a high hand.
EXO 14:9 And the Egyptians pursued after them. And they found them camping by the sea. And all the cavalry, and the chariots of Pharaoh, and the horsemen, and his military were before the property right opposite Baal-zephon.
EXO 14:10 And Pharaoh led forward, and the sons of Israel looking up with the eyes beheld, and behold, the Egyptians were encamped behind them; and they feared exceedingly. And the sons of Israel yelled out to the LORD.
EXO 14:11 And they said to Moses, Because there were no tombs existing in Egypt, have you led us to be put to death in the wilderness? What is this you did to us, bringing us forth from out of Egypt?
EXO 14:12 Was this not the saying which we spoke in Egypt to you? saying, Disregard us! so that we may slave to the Egyptians. For it is better for us to slave to the Egyptians, than to die in this wilderness.
EXO 14:13 And Moses said to the people, Be of courage! Stand and see the deliverance by the LORD which he will do for us today! For in which manner you see the Egyptians today, you will not proceed still to see them into the eon of time.
EXO 14:14 The LORD will wage war for us, and you shall be quiet.
EXO 14:15 And the LORD said to Moses, Why do you yell to me? Speak to the sons of Israel, and break camp!
EXO 14:16 And you, lift up your rod, and stretch out your hand upon the sea, and tear it! And let the sons of Israel enter into the midst of the sea on dry land!
EXO 14:17 And behold, I will harden the heart of Pharaoh, and all the Egyptians. And they will enter in after them, and I will be glorified by Pharaoh, and by all his military, and by the chariots, and by his horses.
EXO 14:18 And all the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD glorifying myself by Pharaoh, and by the chariots, and by his horses.
EXO 14:19 And the angel of God lifted away going before the camp of the sons of Israel, and went at the rear. And lifted away also the column of cloud from their sight, and it stood at the rear of them.
EXO 14:20 And it entered between the camp of the Egyptians and between the camp of Israel, and it stood. And there was darkness and dimness. And the night went by. And they did not mix together one to another the entire night.
EXO 14:21 And Moses stretched out his hand upon the sea. And the LORD drew away the sea by a violent south wind the entire night. And he made the sea dry, and cut asunder the water.
EXO 14:22 And the sons of Israel entered in the midst of the sea down on the dry land. And its water was a wall from the right and a wall from the left.
EXO 14:23 And the Egyptians pursued. And all the cavalry of Pharaoh entered after them, and the chariots, and the riders, into the midst of the sea.
EXO 14:24 And it came to pass in the watch, in the early morning, and the LORD gave attention unto the camp of the Egyptians with a column of fire and a cloud; and he disturbed the camp of the Egyptians.
EXO 14:25 And he bound the axles of their chariots, and led them with force. And the Egyptians said, We should flee from the face of Israel, for the LORD wages war for them against the Egyptians.
EXO 14:26 And the LORD said to Moses, Stretch out your hand upon the sea, and restore the water and cover over the Egyptians, over both the chariots and over the riders!
EXO 14:27 And Moses stretched out the hand upon the sea, and the water restored at day to its place. And the Egyptians fled from under the water. And the LORD shook off the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.
EXO 14:28 And in turning back, the water covered the chariots, and the riders, and all the force of Pharaoh entering after them into the sea. And there was not left of them not even one.
EXO 14:29 And the sons of Israel went through dry land in the midst of the sea; and the water was to them a wall on the right, and a wall on the left.
EXO 14:30 And the LORD rescued Israel in that day from the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians having died by the edge of the sea.
EXO 14:31 And Israel saw the great hand by which the LORD executed against the Egyptians. And the people feared the LORD, and they trusted in God, and Moses his attendant.
EXO 15:1 Then they sang, Moses and the sons of Israel, this ode to the LORD, and said, We should sing to the LORD, for gloriously he is glorified; horse and rider he tossed into the sea.
EXO 15:2 Helper and shelterer he became to me for deliverance. This is my God, and I will glorify him; the God of my father, and I will exalt him.
EXO 15:3 The LORD breaking by wars - the LORD is his name.
EXO 15:4 Chariots of Pharaoh and his force he tossed into the sea; chosen riders - tribunes he sank in the red sea.
EXO 15:5 A high sea covered them; they descended unto the deep as stone.
EXO 15:6 Your right hand, O LORD, has been glorified in strength; your right hand, O LORD, devastated enemies.
EXO 15:7 And in the magnitude of your glory you broke the opponents. You sent your anger, and it devoured them as stubble.
EXO 15:8 And by the breath of your rage the water parted; as a banked up wall were the waters; and the waves were banked up in the midst of the sea.
EXO 15:9 The enemy said, In pursuing, I shall overtake; I shall portion the spoils; I shall fill up my soul; I will take up my sword; my hand will dominate.
EXO 15:10 You sent your breath - the sea covered them; they went down as lead in vehement water.
EXO 15:11 Who is likened to you among gods, O LORD? Who is likened to you, being glorified among holy ones, wonderful in glories, doing miracles?
EXO 15:12 You stretched out your right hand - the earth swallowed them.
EXO 15:13 You guided by your righteousness - this your people whom you ransomed. You aided in your strength in your holy lodging.
EXO 15:14 Nations heard, and were provoked to anger; pangs took hold of the ones dwelling among the Philistines.
EXO 15:15 Then hastened the princes of Edom, and the rulers of the Moabites; trembling took hold of them; they melted away - all the ones dwelling in Canaan.
EXO 15:16 May fear and trembling fall upon them; by the greatness of your arm they are petrified, until whenever your people may go by, O LORD, until whenever this your people may go by, which you acquired.
EXO 15:17 In bringing them in, plant them in your mountain of inheritance; into your prepared home which you manufactured, O LORD; the sanctuary, O LORD, which you prepared by your hands.
EXO 15:18 The LORD reigning into the eon, and unto eon, and still!
EXO 15:19 For the horse of Pharaoh entered with chariots and riders into the sea, and the LORD brought upon them the water of the sea; but the sons of Israel went through dry land in the midst of the sea.
EXO 15:20 And Miriam the prophetess the sister of Aaron took the tambourine in her hand. And came forth all the women after her with tambourines and dancers.
EXO 15:21 And Miriam led them, saying, We should sing to the LORD, for gloriously he glorified himself - horse and rider he tossed into the sea.
EXO 15:22 And Moses lifted up the sons of Israel from the red sea, and led them into the wilderness of Shur. And they went three days in the wilderness, and they did not find water so as to drink.
EXO 15:23 And they came unto Marah. And they were not able to drink water at Marah, for it was bitter. On account of this the name of that place was named Bitter.
EXO 15:24 And the people complained unto Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
EXO 15:25 And Moses yelled to the LORD; and the LORD showed to him a tree. And he put it into the water, and the water was sweetened. There he established with him ordinances and judgments, and there he tested him.
EXO 15:26 And he said, If you should hear the voice of the LORD your God, and you should do the things pleasing before him, and you should give ear to his commandments, and you should guard all his ordinances, then every disease which was brought upon the Egyptians I will not bring upon you. For I am the LORD healing you.
EXO 15:27 And they came into Elim. And there were there twelve springs of waters, and seventy trunks of palm trees; and they camped there by the waters.
EXO 16:1 And they departed from Elim, and all the congregation of the sons of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and between Sinai. And on the fifteenth day in the second month they went forth from the land of Egypt.
EXO 16:2 All the gathering of the sons of Israel complained to Moses and Aaron.
EXO 16:3 And the sons of Israel said to them, Ought we died being struck by the LORD in the land of Egypt, whenever we sat at the kettles of the meats, and ate breads in fullness. For you led us into this wilderness to kill all this congregation by hunger.
EXO 16:4 And the LORD said to Moses, Behold, I rain upon you breads from out of the heaven; and the people shall come forth and shall collect together the bread day to day, that I should test them if they shall go by my law or not.
EXO 16:5 And it will be in the sixth day, and they shall prepare what ever they should carry in; and it shall be double what ever they should bring according to day by day.
EXO 16:6 And Moses and Aaron said to all the gathering of the sons of Israel, At evening, you will know that the LORD led you out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 16:7 And in the morning you will see the glory of the LORD, in the hearing of your grumbling against God. And we, what are we that you complain against us?
EXO 16:8 And Moses said, Is it in the LORD giving to you in the evening meats to eat, and breads in the morning for fullness, on account of the \Scap lord's hearing your grumbling which you complain against us? But we, what are we? For your grumbling is not against us, but against God.
EXO 16:9 And Moses said to Aaron, Say to all the congregation of the sons of Israel! Come forward before God, for he has heard your grumbling!
EXO 16:10 And when Aaron spoke to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, that they turned into the wilderness, and the glory of the LORD appeared in a cloud.
EXO 16:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 16:12 I have heard the grumbling of the sons of Israel. Speak to them! saying, Towards evening you shall eat meats, and in the morning you will be filled of breads; and you shall know that I am the LORD your God.
EXO 16:13 And it was evening, and ascended the mother-quail, and it covered the camp. And in the morning there was a resting of the dew round about the camp.
EXO 16:14 And behold, upon the face of the wilderness, a thin thing as coriander - white, as ice upon the earth.
EXO 16:15 And seeing it, the sons of Israel said, the other to the other, What is this? for they knew not what it was. And Moses said to them, This is the bread which the LORD gave to you to eat.
EXO 16:16 This is the thing which the LORD ordered. Bring together of it each for what is fitting! An omer per head, according to the number of your souls - let each with the ones of your tents collect together!
EXO 16:17 And the sons of Israel did so. And they collected together what was much and what was less.
EXO 16:18 And measuring with the omer, the one which had much was not superabundant, and the one which had less, had not too less; for each collected together what was fitting for himself.
EXO 16:19 And Moses said to them, Let no one leave behind of his into the morning!
EXO 16:20 And they hearkened not to Moses, but left behind some of it into the morning. And worms erupted, and it stunk. And Moses was embittered over them.
EXO 16:21 And they collected it together morning by morning, each the fitting thing for himself. And when the sun warmed through, it melted away.
EXO 16:22 And it happened in the sixth day they collected together the necessary double amount, two omers to the one person. And all the rulers of the congregation entered and announced to Moses.
EXO 16:23 And Moses said to them, This word is what the LORD spoke. A sabbath rest, holy to the LORD is tomorrow. Whatever as much as you should bake - bake. And whatever as much as you should boil - boil! And all the thing being superabundant - leave it for reposit for the morning!
EXO 16:24 And they left of it into the morning, as Moses ordered them. And it did not stink, nor was there a worm in it.
EXO 16:25 And Moses said, You eat it today, for it is a sabbath to the LORD! Today you shall not find any in a plain.
EXO 16:26 Six days you shall collect together, but the seventh day is a sabbath, for it shall not be found in it.
EXO 16:27 And it came to pass on the seventh day, and came forth certain ones from the people to collect together, and they found not.
EXO 16:28 And the LORD said to Moses, For how long will you not listen to my commandments, and my law?
EXO 16:29 See, for the LORD gave to you this sabbath day! On account of this he gave to you on the sixth day breads for two days. Let each sit down in your houses by himself! Not one of you go forth from out of his place during the seventh day!
EXO 16:30 And the people observed the sabbath in the seventh day.
EXO 16:31 And the sons of Israel named it. The name of it was Manna. And it was as the seed of coriander - white. And the taste of it was as pastry with honey.
EXO 16:32 And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD ordered, Fill the omer of the manna for a reposit for your generations; that they might see the bread which you ate in the wilderness, as the LORD led you out of the land of Egypt!
EXO 16:33 And Moses said to Aaron, Take one golden jar, and put in it a full omer of manna, and put it aside before God for preservation into your generations!
EXO 16:34 In which manner the LORD ordered Moses, even Aaron put it aside before the testimony for preservation.
EXO 16:35 And the sons of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came into the land to be lived in. They ate the manna until they came into a part of Phoenicia.
EXO 16:36 Now the omer was the tenth of three measures.
EXO 17:1 And all the congregation of the sons of Israel departed from out of the wilderness of Sin, according to their camps, through the saying of the LORD. And they camped in Rephidim. But there was not water for the people to drink.
EXO 17:2 And the people reviled against Moses, saying, Give to us water that we may drink! And Moses said to them, Why do you revile me? And why do you test the LORD?
EXO 17:3 And the people thirsted there for water. And the people complained against Moses, saying, Why is this that you hauled us from out of Egypt to kill us, and our children, and the cattle by thirst?
EXO 17:4 And Moses yelled to the LORD, saying, What should I do with this people? Yet in a little while and they will cast stones at me.
EXO 17:5 And the LORD said to Moses, Go before this people, and take with yourself some of the elders of the people; and the rod in which you struck the river, take it in your hand, and go!
EXO 17:6 Behold, I stand there before your coming upon the rock in Horeb; and you shall strike the rock, and shall come forth from out of it water, and the people shall drink. And Moses did thus before the sons of Israel.
EXO 17:7 And he named the name of that place - Test and Reviling, on account of the reviling of the sons of Israel, and on account of the testing the LORD, saying, Is the LORD with us or not?
EXO 17:8 And Amalek came, and waged war against Israel in Rephidim.
EXO 17:9 And Moses said to Joshua, Choose to yourself mighty men, and going forth deploy against Amalek tomorrow! And behold, I shall stand upon the top of the hill, and the rod of God in my hand.
EXO 17:10 And Joshua did as Moses told to him. And going forth he deployed against Amalek. And Moses and Aaron and Hur ascended upon the top of the hill.
EXO 17:11 And it happened whenever Moses lifted up the hands, Israel grew strong. But whenever he lowered the hands, Amalek grew strong.
EXO 17:12 And the hands of Moses became heavy. And taking a stone they placed it under him, and he sat down upon it. And Aaron and Hur supported his hands; here one and there one. And the hands of Moses were supported until the descent of the sun.
EXO 17:13 And Joshua routed Amalek and all his people by a carnage of the sword.
EXO 17:14 And the LORD said to Moses, Write this for a memorial in a scroll, and put it unto the ears of Joshua! For as ointment I will wipe away the memorial of Amalek from under heaven.
EXO 17:15 And Moses built an altar to the LORD, and named the name of it, The LORD My Refuge;
EXO 17:16 for with a hidden hand the LORD wages war against Amalek from generations unto generations.
EXO 18:1 And Jethro the priest of Midian the father-in-law of Moses heard all as much as the LORD did to Israel, to his own people; for the LORD led Israel out of Egypt.
EXO 18:2 Then Jethro the father-in -law of Moses took Zipporah the wife of Moses after her release,
EXO 18:3 and the two sons of his - the name to the one was Gershom, saying, I was a sojourner in an alien land,
EXO 18:4 and the name of the second was Eliezer, saying, For the God of my father is my helper, and he rescued me from out of the hand of Pharaoh.
EXO 18:5 And came forth Jethro, the father-in-law of Moses, and the sons, and the wife, to Moses, into the wilderness of which place he camped at the mountain of God.
EXO 18:6 And it was announced to Moses, saying, Behold, your father-in-law Jethro comes to you, and your wife, and your two sons with him.
EXO 18:7 And Moses came forth to meet with his father-in-law, and did obeisance to him, and kissed him; and they greeted one another; and he brought them into the tent.
EXO 18:8 And Moses described to his father-in-law all as much as the LORD did to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians on account of Israel; and all the trouble coming to them in the way; and that the LORD rescued them from out of the hand of Pharaoh, and from out of the hand of the Egyptians.
EXO 18:9 And Jethro was amazed by all the good things which the LORD did to them; that the LORD rescued them from out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from out of the hand of Pharaoh.
EXO 18:10 And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, for he rescued his people from out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from out of the hand of Pharaoh.
EXO 18:11 Now I know that the LORD is great above all the gods; because of of this - that they made an attempt against them.
EXO 18:12 And Jethro the father-in-law of Moses took whole burnt offerings and sacrifice offerings to God. And Aaron and all the elders of Israel came to eat bread with the father-in-law of Moses before God.
EXO 18:13 And it came to pass after the next day, Moses sat down to judge the people. And all the people stood by Moses from morning until evening.
EXO 18:14 And Jethro seeing all as much as he did to the people, says, What is this which you do to the people? Why do you sit down alone, and all the people stand by you from morning until afternoon?
EXO 18:15 And Moses says to his father-in-law, Because the people come to me to seek after a judgment from God.
EXO 18:16 For whenever there is to them a dispute, and they should come to me, I litigate each, and I instruct them in the orders of God, and his law.
EXO 18:17 And the father-in-law said to Moses to him, Not rightly do you do this thing.
EXO 18:18 And you will be corrupted in unsufferable corruption, and all this people which is with you. This thing is heavy on you; you will not be able to act yourself alone.
EXO 18:19 Now then hear me, and I shall advise you, and God will be with you! You become to the people for the things before God! And you shall offer their words to God.
EXO 18:20 And you shall testify to them the orders of God, and his law, and you shall signify to them the ways in which they shall go by them, and the works which they shall do.
EXO 18:21 And you yourself look about from all of the people for men mighty and godly - just men, detesting pride! And you shall place of them over them commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, and commanders of fifties, and commanders of tens.
EXO 18:22 And they shall judge the people every hour. But the enormous thing they shall offer unto you, but the little matters of the judgments they shall judge them; and they shall lighten the load from you, and shall give aid to you.
EXO 18:23 If this thing you do, then God will strengthen you, and you will be able to stand, and all this people shall come unto their own place with peace.
EXO 18:24 And Moses hearkened to the voice of his father-in-law, and did as much as he said to him.
EXO 18:25 And Moses chose mighty men from all Israel, and appointed them over them as commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, and commanders of fifties, and commanders of tens, and judicial recorders.
EXO 18:26 And they judged the people every hour; but the enormous matter they offered to Moses, but every light matter they judged themselves.
EXO 18:27 And Moses sent out his own father-in-law; and he went forth unto his land.
EXO 19:1 And in the third month of the exodus of the sons of Israel from the land Egypt, on this day they came into the wilderness of Sinai.
EXO 19:2 And they lifted away from Rephidim, and came into the wilderness of Sinai, and Israel camped there over against the mountain.
EXO 19:3 And Moses ascended into the mountain of God. And God called him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and announce to the sons of Israel,
EXO 19:4 You have seen as much as I have done to them - to the Egyptians. And I took you as upon wings of eagles, and led you to myself.
EXO 19:5 And now, if in hearing you should hear my voice, and guard my covenant, you will be to me a prized people from all of the nations. For all the earth is mine.
EXO 19:6 And you shall be to me a royal priesthood, and a holy nation. These words you shall say to the sons of Israel.
EXO 19:7 And Moses came and called the elders of the people. And he placed near to them all of these words of which God gave orders to them.
EXO 19:8 And all the people answered with one accord, and said, All as much as God said we shall do, and we shall hearken. And Moses offered the words of the people to God.
EXO 19:9 And the LORD said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in a column of cloud, that the people should hear me speaking to you, and should trust you into the eon. And Moses announced the words of the people to the LORD.
EXO 19:10 And the LORD said to Moses, In going down, testify to the people, and purify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments!
EXO 19:11 And let them be prepared for the third day! For in the third day the LORD shall come down upon mount Sinai before all the people.
EXO 19:12 And you shall separate the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves ascending unto the mountain, and any lightly touching of it. All touching the mountain, by death he will come to an end.
EXO 19:13 His hand shall not touch it, for with stones they shall be stoned or with an arrow dart. they shall be shot; if it be also cattle, or if it be also man, he shall not live. And whenever the voices, and the trumpets, and the cloud go forth from the mountain, they shall ascend to the mountain.
EXO 19:14 And Moses went down from the mountain to the people, and sanctified them. And they washed their garments.
EXO 19:15 And he said to the people, Be prepared three days - do not come forward to a woman.
EXO 19:16 And it came to pass in the third day, happening towards dawn, and there were voices, and lightnings, and overcast clouds upon mount Sinai; the sound of the trumpet sounded greatly, and all the people were terrified in the camp.
EXO 19:17 And Moses led the people for a meeting with God from out of the camp. And they stood by the mountain.
EXO 19:18 Mount Sinai smoked entirely on account of God coming down upon it in fire. And the smoke ascended as smoke of a furnace. And all the people were exceedingly amazed.
EXO 19:19 And there were the sounds of the trumpet advancing strong - exceedingly. Moses spoke, and God answered to him by voice.
EXO 19:20 And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, upon the top of the mountain. And the LORD called Moses unto the top of the mountain; and Moses ascended.
EXO 19:21 And God said to Moses, saying, Go down to testify to the people, lest at any time they should approach to God to contemplate, and a multitude of them should fall!
EXO 19:22 And the priests approaching to the LORD God - let them be sanctified, lest at any time the LORD should get rid of them!
EXO 19:23 And Moses said to God, The people shall not be able to ascend to mount Sinai, for you testified to us, saying, Separate from the mountain, and sanctify it!
EXO 19:24 And the LORD said to him, Proceed, go down, and then ascend, you and Aaron with you! But the priests and the people shall not use force to ascend to God, lest at any time the LORD should destroy some of them.
EXO 19:25 And Moses went down to the people, and spoke to them.
EXO 20:1 And the LORD spoke all these words, saying,
EXO 20:2 I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery.
EXO 20:3 There shall not be to you other gods besides me.
EXO 20:4 You shall not make to yourself an idol, nor any representation, as much as is in the heaven upward, nor as much as is in the earth below, nor as much as is in the waters underneath the earth.
EXO 20:5 You shall not do obeisance to them, nor in any way shall you serve to them. For I am the LORD your God - a jealous God, rendering sins of fathers upon children unto the third and fourth generation to the ones detesting me;
EXO 20:6 and having mercy to thousands loving me, and guarding my orders.
EXO 20:7 You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain. For not in any way shall the LORD cleanse the one taking his name in vain.
EXO 20:8 Remember the day of the sabbaths to sanctify it!
EXO 20:9 Six days you shall work, and shall do all your works;
EXO 20:10 but the seventh day is a sabbath to the LORD your God. You shall not do on it any work - you, and your son, and your daughter, your servant, and your maidservant, your ox, and your beast of burden, and all your cattle, and the convert sojourning among you.
EXO 20:11 For in six days the LORD made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all the things in them. And he rested on the seventh day. Because of this the LORD blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it.
EXO 20:12 Esteem your father and your mother, that good should happen to you, and that you may be a long time upon the good earth which the LORD your God gives to you!
EXO 20:13 You shall not murder.
EXO 20:14 You shall not commit adultery.
EXO 20:15 You shall not steal.
EXO 20:16 You shall not falsely witness against your neighbor as a lying witness.
EXO 20:17 You shall not covet the wife of your neighbor. You shall not covet the house of your neighbor, nor his field, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his beast of burden, nor any of his beasts, nor as much is to your neighbor.
EXO 20:18 All the people perceived the voice, and the lamps, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. And fearing, all the people stood afar off.
EXO 20:19 And they said to Moses, You speak to us, and do not let God speak to us, lest we might die!
EXO 20:20 And Moses says to them, Be of courage! For because of the testing you God came to you, so that there might be the fear of him in you, that you should not sin!
EXO 20:21 And all the people stood afar off. But Moses entered into the dimness where God was.
EXO 20:22 And the LORD said to Moses, Thus shall you say to the house of Jacob, and announce to the sons of Israel, You have seen that from out of the heaven I have spoken to you.
EXO 20:23 You shall not make to yourselves gods of silver, and gods of gold; you shall not make them to yourselves.
EXO 20:24 An altar from out of the earth you shall make to me, and you shall sacrifice upon it your whole burnt offerings, and your deliverance offerings - the sheep, and your calves, in every place of which ever I should name my name there. And I will come to you, and I will bless you.
EXO 20:25 And if you should make an altar of stones to me, you shall not build them cut into shape; for you have put your knife upon them, and they are defiled.
EXO 20:26 You shall not ascend by stairs unto my altar, so that you should not uncover your indecency upon it.
EXO 21:1 And these are the ordinances which you shall place before them.
EXO 21:2 If you should acquire a Hebrew servant, he shall serve to you six years, but the seventh year you shall send him free without charge.
EXO 21:3 If he alone should enter, also alone he shall go forth; but if a wife should enter together with him, also the wife shall go out together with him.
EXO 21:4 And if the master should give to him a wife, and she should bear to him sons and daughters - the wife and the children shall be to his master, and he alone shall go forth by himself.
EXO 21:5 And if responding the servant should have said, I have loved my master, and my wife, and the children - I do not run free.
EXO 21:6 Then his master shall lead him to the judgment seat of God, and then lead him to the door, unto the doorpost. And his master shall make a hole in the ear with the shoemaker's awl, and he shall serve to him into the eon.
EXO 21:7 But if any should give over his own daughter as a domestic servant, she shall not go forth as the maidservants run forth.
EXO 21:8 If she should not be well-pleasing to her master, who did not solemnly promise her; on payment of ransom he shall release her. But the master is not to sell her to an alien nation, for he disrespected her.
EXO 21:9 And if to his son he solemnly promised her, according to the ordinance of the daughters, he shall commit to her.
EXO 21:10 And if he should take another woman to himself, the things necessary, and the clothes, and her companionship he shall not deprive.
EXO 21:11 And if these three things he should not do for her, she shall go forth freely, without paying money.
EXO 21:12 And if any should strike any, and he should die, to death let him be put to death!
EXO 21:13 But if it be done not willingly, but God delivered up into his hands, I will give to you a place in which he shall flee there - the one man-slaying.
EXO 21:14 But if any should set against the neighbor, to kill him by treachery, and should take refuge; you shall take him from my altar to be put to death.
EXO 21:15 Whoever beats his father or his mother, to death he should be put to death.
EXO 21:16 The one speaking evil of his father or his mother, to death let him come to an end!
EXO 21:17 Who ever should steal any of any one of the sons of Israel, and tyrannizing him, should give him over, and should be found with him, to death let him come to an end!
EXO 21:18 And if two men revile each other, and one should strike the neighbor with a stone, or fist, and he should not die, but lies down upon the bed;
EXO 21:19 if in arising, the man should walk outside upon his cane, the one striking will be innocent; except he shall pay for his idleness, and the physician's fee.
EXO 21:20 But if any strike his servant or his maidservant with a rod, and one should die by his hand, with punishment let him be punished!
EXO 21:21 And if the one should continue to live one day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his money.
EXO 21:22 And if two men should do combat, and should strike a woman having one in the womb, and should come forth her child not completely formed, with a fine he shall be penalized, in so far as the husband of the woman should put upon him, and he shall give by means of what is fit.
EXO 21:23 And if it should be completely formed, he shall give life for life,
EXO 21:24 eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
EXO 21:25 burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
EXO 21:26 And if any should strike the eye of his man-servant, or the eye of his female attendant, and he should blind; he shall send them free on account of their eye.
EXO 21:27 And if the tooth of the man-servant, or the tooth of his female attendant he should knock out; he shall send them free on account of their tooth.
EXO 21:28 And if a bull should gore a man or woman, and either die; with stones you shall stone the bull, and you shall not eat of its meats; but the owner of the bull shall be innocent.
EXO 21:29 But if the bull should be goring before yesterday, and before the third day before, and men testified to its owner, and he should not remove it, and if it should have done away with a man or a woman; they shall stone the bull, and the owner of it shall die in addition.
EXO 21:30 And if ransoms should be put to him, he shall give ransoms for the life of it, as much as should be put upon him.
EXO 21:31 And if a son or daughter should be gored - according to this ordinance they shall observe it.
EXO 21:32 And if the bull should have gored a manservant or a maidservant; he shall give thirty double-drachmas of silver to their owner, and the bull shall be stoned.
EXO 21:33 And if any should open a pit, or a quarry pit, and should not cover it, and a calf or donkey should fall in there;
EXO 21:34 the owner of the pit shall pay - he shall give money to their owner, and the animal coming to an end will be his.
EXO 21:35 And if any bull should gore the bull of the neighbor, and it should come to an end, they shall give over the living bull for sale, and divide the money from it; and the bull having died they shall divide.
EXO 21:36 And if it is made known that the bull is given to goring before yesterday, and before the third day, and they should have been testifying to its owner, and he did not remove it; he shall pay bull for bull; but the bull coming to an end will be his.
EXO 22:1 And if any should steal a calf or a sheep, and should slay it, or should sell it, he shall pay five calves for the calf, and four sheep for the sheep.
EXO 22:2 And if the thief should be found in the ditch, and being struck should die, it is not murder to him striking.
EXO 22:3 But if the sun should rise upon him, he is liable, he shall die for it; and if there be no possessions to him, let him be sold for the theft.
EXO 22:4 And if anything should be left, and should be found in his hand from the theft, from both donkey unto sheep which may be living, he shall pay double for it.
EXO 22:5 And if any should graze upon a field or a vineyard, and should let his cattle graze upon another field, he shall pay from his field according to his produce; but if all the field should be grazed upon, he shall pay from his best field and from his best vineyard.
EXO 22:6 And if a fire going forth should find thorn-bushes, and should set on fire a threshing-floor, or ears of wheat, or a field, the one burning with the fire shall pay.
EXO 22:7 And if any should give to his neighbor silver or items to guard, and it should be stolen from out of the house of the man; if the one stealing should be found he shall pay double.
EXO 22:8 But if the one stealing should not be found, the master of the house shall come forward before God, and shall swear by an oath that assuredly he did not do wickedly regarding all that was in deposit for the care of his neighbor.
EXO 22:9 According to every particular offence, concerning both calf, and beast of burden, and sheep, and garment, and every destruction being accused, the one who then should be before God when the judgment of both shall come; then the one convicted by God shall pay double to his neighbor.
EXO 22:10 And if any should give to the neighbor a beast of burden, or a calf, or sheep, or any cattle to guard; and it should break, or come to an end, or become captive, and no one should know;
EXO 22:11 then there shall be an oath of God between both, swearing that assuredly he had not done wickedly to partake altogether of the deposit put in care by his neighbor; and thus his owner shall receive him favorably, and he shall not pay.
EXO 22:12 And if it be stolen from him, he shall pay the owner of it.
EXO 22:13 And if it should be taken by wild beasts, he shall lead him to the game, and he shall not pay.
EXO 22:14 And if anyone should ask to borrow from his neighbor, and it should break, or die, or become captive, and the owner of it should not be with it, he shall pay.
EXO 22:15 But if its owner should be with it, he shall not pay; but if a hireling should be with it, it will be to him for his wage.
EXO 22:16 And if any should beguile a virgin not betrothed, and should go to bed with her, he shall endow her to himself as a wife with a dowry.
EXO 22:17 But if in shaking he shakes his head in dissent, and her father should not be willing to give her to him as wife, he shall pay to the father silver according to as much as is the dowry of the virgins.
EXO 22:18 Administers of potions you shall not procure.
EXO 22:19 Every one going to bed with a beast - to death you shall kill them.
EXO 22:20 The one sacrificing to gods shall be utterly destroyed - except to the LORD alone.
EXO 22:21 And you shall not maltreat a foreigner, nor should you afflict him; for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt.
EXO 22:22 Every widow and orphan you shall not maltreat.
EXO 22:23 And if you should maltreat them, and crying out they should yell out to me, in hearing I shall listen to their yell,
EXO 22:24 and I shall be provoked to anger with rage, and I will kill you by the sword, and your wives will be widows, and your children orphans.
EXO 22:25 And if money should be lent with interest to the brother destitute close to you, you shall not be coercing him, you shall not place interest upon him.
EXO 22:26 And if for collateral you should take for security the cloak of your neighbor, before the descent of the sun you shall give it back to him,
EXO 22:27 for this is his wrap-around garment, this alone is his cloak for indecency - in what manner shall he go to bed? If then he should yell out to me, I will listen to him; for I am merciful.
EXO 22:28 You shall not speak evil of magistrates, and you shall not speak wickedly of rulers of your people.
EXO 22:29 You shall not be late of your first-fruits of the threshing-floor and wine vat. Your first-born son you shall give to me -
EXO 22:30 so shall you do with your calf, and your sheep, and your beast of burden. Seven days it shall be under the mother, but in the eighth day you shall give it back to me.
EXO 22:31 And you shall be holy men to me. And meat in a field taken by wild beasts you shall not eat - throw it away to the dogs!
EXO 23:1 You shall not welcome a vain report. Not shall you assent together with the unjust to become an unjust witness.
EXO 23:2 You shall not be with many people for evil. You shall not be added with a multitude to turn aside a judgment.
EXO 23:3 And you shall not show mercy in a judgment because one is needy.
EXO 23:4 And if you should meet up to the ox of your enemy, or to his beast of burden wandering, by returning you shall give it back to him.
EXO 23:5 And if you should see the beast of burden of your enemy falling under its load of merchandise, you shall not go by it, but you shall raise it with him.
EXO 23:6 You shall not turn aside a judgment of the needy in his judgment.
EXO 23:7 From all things unjust you shall abstain. An innocent and just one you shall not kill. And you shall not give justice to the impious one because of bribes.
EXO 23:8 And you shall not receive bribes; for the bribes blind the eyes of seeing, and lay waste just matters.
EXO 23:9 And you shall not maltreat a foreigner, nor in any way afflict. For you know the soul of the foreigner, for you yourselves were foreigners in the land of Egypt.
EXO 23:10 Six years you shall sow your land, and you shall gather its produce;
EXO 23:11 but on the seventh you shall make a release from work, and spare it, and the poor of your nation shall eat; and the things being left behind of them the wild beasts of the field shall eat. Thus you shall do with your vineyard, and your olive grove.
EXO 23:12 Six days you shall do your works, but on the seventh day you shall rest, that your ox may rest, and your beast of burden, and that the son of your maidservant may be refreshed, and the foreigner.
EXO 23:13 All, as much as I have spoken to you, guard! And the name of other gods you shall not call to mind, nor should one be heard from out of your mouth.
EXO 23:14 Three times of the year solemnize a holiday to me!
EXO 23:15 The holiday of the unleavened breads keep to do! Seven days you shall eat unleavened breads, just as I gave charge to you, according to the time of the month of the new produce; for in it you came forth from out of Egypt. You shall not appear before me empty.
EXO 23:16 And a holiday of the harvest of the first produce you shall observe of your works, what ever you sow in your field; and a holiday of completion at the conclusion of the year in the gathering of your works from out of your field.
EXO 23:17 Three times a year every male of yours shall appear before the LORD your God.
EXO 23:18 For whenever I should cast out the nations from your face, and widen your boundaries, you shall not sacrifice with yeast the blood of my sacrifice offering, neither shall the fat of my holiday feast remain through the night until morning.
EXO 23:19 The first-fruits of the first produce of your land you shall carry into the house of the LORD your God. You shall not boil a lamb in its mother's milk.
EXO 23:20 And behold, I send my messenger before your face, that he may guard you in the way, that he may bring you into the land which I prepared for you.
EXO 23:21 Take heed to yourself, and hearken to him, and do not resist his persuasion, for not in any way should he avoid you, for my name is upon him!
EXO 23:22 If in hearing you should hearken to my voice, and should do all as much as I give charge to you, I will be an enemy to your enemies, and I will be an adversary to the ones being an adversary of you.
EXO 23:23 For my messenger shall go leading you; and he will bring you to the Amorite, and Hittite, and Perizzite, and Canaanite, and Gergasite, and Hivite, and Jebusite; and I will obliterate them.
EXO 23:24 You shall not do obeisance to their gods, nor shall you serve to them. You shall not do according to their works. But by demolition you shall demolish them; and by breaking you shall break their monuments.
EXO 23:25 And you shall serve to the LORD your God, and I will bless your bread, and your wine, and your water; and I will turn infirmity from you.
EXO 23:26 It will not be barren, nor sterile upon your land; the number of your days I will fill up.
EXO 23:27 And the fear of me I will send leading before you, and will startle all the nations into which you enter into them; and I will give over all your opponents unto exiles.
EXO 23:28 And I will send the swarms of wasps in front of you, and will cast out the Amorites, and the Hivites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, from you.
EXO 23:29 I will not cast them from your face in one year; so that the land should not become wilderness, and many wild beasts should happen upon you in the land.
EXO 23:30 According to little by little I will cast them from you, until whenever you should grow and be heir to the land.
EXO 23:31 And I will establish your boundaries from the red sea unto the sea of the Philistines; and from the wilderness unto the river of the great Euphrates. And I will deliver up into your hands the ones lying in wait in the land; and I will cast them from you.
EXO 23:32 You shall not assent together with them, and with their gods you shall not establish a covenant.
EXO 23:33 And they shall not lie in wait in your land, lest they should cause you to sin against me; for if you should be a slave to their gods, these will be to you an occasion for stumbling.
EXO 24:1 And to Moses he said, Ascend to the LORD, you, and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel! And they shall do obeisance far off to the LORD.
EXO 24:2 And Moses shall approach alone to God; but they shall not approach, and the people shall not go up with them.
EXO 24:3 And Moses entered and described to the people all the words of God, and the ordinances. And all the people answered in one voice, saying, All the words which the LORD spoke we will do, and will hearken.
EXO 24:4 And Moses wrote down all the words of the LORD. And Moses rising early in the morning built an altar by the mountain, even with twelve stones for the twelve tribes of Israel.
EXO 24:5 And he sent out the young men of the sons of Israel. And they offered whole burnt offerings, and sacrificed a sacrifice of deliverance offering to God of young calves.
EXO 24:6 And Moses taking half of the blood, poured it into a basin; and the other half of the blood he poured upon the altar.
EXO 24:7 And taking the scroll of the covenant, he read into the ears of the people. And they said, All as much as the LORD spoke we shall do, and shall hearken to it.
EXO 24:8 And Moses taking the blood, scattered it upon the people. And he said, Behold, the blood of the covenant of which the LORD ordained for you concerning all of these words.
EXO 24:9 And Moses ascended, and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel.
EXO 24:10 And they saw the place where the God of Israel stood. And the things under his feet were as a brick work of sapphire, and as the form of firmament of the heaven in the cleanliness.
EXO 24:11 And of the chosen ones of Israel, he dissented not - not one. And they appeared in the place of God, and ate and drank.
EXO 24:12 And the LORD said to Moses, Ascend to me unto the mountain, and you be there! And I will give to you the stone writing-tablets - the law, and the commandments which I wrote to establish law to them.
EXO 24:13 And Moses rising up, and Joshua the one standing beside him, they ascended into the mountain of God.
EXO 24:14 And they said to the elders, Be still here, until we return to you! And behold, Aaron and Hur are with you. If anyone should come for a judgment, let them go to them!
EXO 24:15 And Moses ascended into the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
EXO 24:16 And the glory of God came down upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. And the LORD called Moses on the seventh day from out of the midst of the cloud.
EXO 24:17 And the sight of the glory of the LORD was as fire blazing upon the top of the mountain before the sons of Israel.
EXO 24:18 And Moses entered in the midst of the cloud, and ascended unto the mountain. And he was there in the mountain forty days and forty nights.
EXO 25:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 25:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And take to me first-fruits of all the things which seem good in the heart! You shall take the first-fruits of mine.
EXO 25:3 And this is the first-fruit which you shall take of them - gold, silver, brass,
EXO 25:4 blue, purple, scarlet doubled up, and linen being twined, and hairs of goats,
EXO 25:5 and skins of rams being dyed red, and skins of blue, and incorruptible wood,
EXO 25:6 and oil for the giving light, incenses for the oil of the anointing, and for the composition of the incense,
EXO 25:7 and stones of sardius, and stones for the carving for the shoulder-piece, and the foot length robe.
EXO 25:8 And you shall make for me a sanctuary, and I will be seen by you.
EXO 25:9 And you shall make for me according to all as much as I show to you in the mountain - the model of the tent, and the model of all the items of it - even thus you shall do.
EXO 25:10 And you shall make an ark of testimony from out of incorruptible wood - two cubits and a half the length, and a cubit and a half the width, and a cubit and a half the height.
EXO 25:11 And you shall gild it with pure gold; from inside and from outside you shall gild it. And you shall make for it a waved border of gold twisted round about.
EXO 25:12 And you shall forge for it four rings of gold, and shall place them upon the four sides; two rings upon the one side, and two rings upon the second side.
EXO 25:13 And you shall make bearing poles from incorruptible wood, and shall gild them with gold.
EXO 25:14 And you shall bring the bearing poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to lift the ark by them.
EXO 25:15 In the rings of the ark of the covenant the bearing poles will be fixed.
EXO 25:16 And you shall put into the ark the testimonies which ever I give to you.
EXO 25:17 And you shall make an atonement-seat, a lid of pure gold - two cubits and a half is the length, and a cubit and a half the width.
EXO 25:18 And you shall make two cherubim golden wrought, and you shall place them at both of the sides of the atonement-seat.
EXO 25:19 You shall make one cherub from out of this one side, and one cherub from out of the second side of the atonement-seat. Thus you shall make the two cherubim upon the two sides.
EXO 25:20 The two cherubim will be stretching out the wings on top, overshadowing with their wings above the atonement-seat, and their faces to one another; the faces of the cherubim will be towards the atonement-seat.
EXO 25:21 And you shall place the atonement-seat upon the ark from above. And into the ark you shall put the testimonies which I shall give to you.
EXO 25:22 And I will be known to you from there, and I will speak to you from above the atonement-seat, between the two cherubim being upon the ark of the testimony, according to all as much as I give charge to you for the sons of Israel.
EXO 25:23 And you shall make a table of incorruptible wood; of two cubits being the length, and a cubit the breadth, and a cubit and a half the height.
EXO 25:24 And you shall gild it in pure gold, and shall make for it a twisted waved border of gold round about. And you shall make for it a rim of a palm width round about.
EXO 25:25 And you shall make a twisted waved border on the rim round about.
EXO 25:26 And you shall make for it four rings of gold, and shall place the four rings upon the four parts of its feet under the rim.
EXO 25:27 And the rings shall be for holders for the bearing poles, so as to lift the table.
EXO 25:28 And you shall make the bearing poles from out of incorruptible woods. And you shall gild them with pure gold. And the table shall be lifted by them.
EXO 25:29 And you shall make its saucers, and the incense pans, and the libation bowls, and the cups, in which you shall offer a libation in them - of pure gold you shall make them.
EXO 25:30 And you shall place breads upon the table face to face before me always.
EXO 25:31 And you shall make a lamp-stand from out of pure gold. you shall make the lamp-stand a turned piece. Its stem, and the branches, and the basins, and the knobs, and the lilies will be of it.
EXO 25:32 And six branches going forth sideways - three branches of the lamp-stand from out of the one side, and three branches of the lamp-stand from the second side.
EXO 25:33 And three basins being shaped nut-like on the one branch, with a knob and a lily; thus to the six branches going forth from out of the lamp-stand.
EXO 25:34 And in the lamp-stand, four basins being shaped nut-like. To the one branch, the knobs, and its lilies.
EXO 25:35 And the knob under the two branches from out of it, and a knob under the other two branches from out of it, thus to the six branches going forth from out of the lamp-stand.
EXO 25:36 The knobs and the branches from out of it - let them be entirely turned from out of one piece of pure gold.
EXO 25:37 And you shall make its seven lamps, and shall place its lamps, and they shall shine forth from the one before it.
EXO 25:38 And its funnel, and its underparts from out of pure gold.
EXO 25:39 With a talent of pure gold you shall make all these items.
EXO 25:40 See that you should make according to the impression being shown to you on the mountain!
EXO 26:1 And for the tent you shall make ten curtains of linen being twined, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, being twined with cherubim. A work of a weaver you shall make them.
EXO 26:2 The length of the one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits; and a breadth of four cubits shall be to the one curtain. The same measure shall be to all the curtains.
EXO 26:3 And five curtains will be of one another, being held the other with the other. And five curtains will be of one another, being held the other with the other.
EXO 26:4 And you shall make for them loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain joining the one part to the coupling. And thus you shall make upon the edge of the outer curtain for the second coupling.
EXO 26:5 And fifty loops you shall make for the one curtain, and fifty loops you shall make for the part of the curtain corresponding to the coupling of the second, facing headlong into one another each.
EXO 26:6 And you shall make fifty hooks of gold. And you shall join together the curtains another to the other to the hooks. And the tent will be one.
EXO 26:7 And you shall make hide coverings of hair for protection upon the tent - eleven hide coverings you shall make them.
EXO 26:8 The length of the one hide covering will be thirty cubits; and four cubits the breadth of the one hide covering; the same measure will be to the eleven hide coverings.
EXO 26:9 And you shall join together the five hide coverings to the same, and the six hide coverings to the same. And you shall double up the sixth hide covering in front of the tent.
EXO 26:10 And you shall make fifty loops upon the edge of the one hide covering in the middle by the coupling. And fifty loops you shall make upon the edge of the hide covering joining the second.
EXO 26:11 And you shall make fifty hooks of brass. And you shall join together the hooks by the loops, and shall join together the hide coverings, and it shall be one.
EXO 26:12 And you shall set the extra in the hide coverings of the tent - the half of the hide covering being left over you shall cover up for the extra of the hide coverings of the tent. You shall cover up behind the tent.
EXO 26:13 A cubit from out of this side, and a cubit from out of that side of the superior part of the hide coverings, from out of the length of the hide coverings of the tent. And it will be to cover over the sides of the tent on this side and that side, so that it should be covered.
EXO 26:14 And you shall make a covering of the tent - skins of rams dyed red, and coverings of skins of blue on top.
EXO 26:15 And you shall make posts for the tent from out of incorruptible wood.
EXO 26:16 Ten cubits you shall make the one post, and one cubit and a half the width of the one post;
EXO 26:17 two joints to the one post resting headlong against another to the other. Thus you shall make to all the posts of the tent.
EXO 26:18 And you shall make the posts for the tent - twenty posts by the side towards the south.
EXO 26:19 And forty bases of silver you shall make for the twenty posts. Two bases to the one post for both its parts, and two bases to the other one post for both its parts.
EXO 26:20 And the second side towards the north - twenty posts.
EXO 26:21 And forty bases for them made of silver. Two bases to the one post for both its parts, and two bases to the other one post for both its parts.
EXO 26:22 And by the rear of the tent by the part towards the west you shall make six posts.
EXO 26:23 And two posts you shall make at the corners of the tent at the posteriors.
EXO 26:24 And they shall be of equal below, and according to the same measurement they shall be equal from the heads unto one coupling. Thus shall you make to both the two corners - let them be equal!
EXO 26:25 And there shall be eight posts. And their bases of silver - sixteen; and two bases to the one post, and two bases to the other one post.
EXO 26:26 And you shall make bars from out of incorruptible wood; five to the posts from the one part of the tent.
EXO 26:27 And five bars to the posts to the second side of the tent, and five bars for the posts to the posterior side of the tent towards the west.
EXO 26:28 And the middle bar in between the posts - let it penetrate from the one side unto the other side!
EXO 26:29 And the posts you shall gild in gold. And the rings you shall make of gold, into which you shall insert the bars. And you shall gild the bars in gold.
EXO 26:30 And you shall raise the tent according to the form being shown to you in the mountain.
EXO 26:31 And you shall make a veil from out of blue, and purple, and scarlet being twined, and linen being spun. You shall make it a woven work with cherubim.
EXO 26:32 And you shall place it upon four posts of incorruptible wood being gilded in gold. And the tips of them shall be in gold, and their four bases made of silver.
EXO 26:33 And you shall put the veil upon the posts. And you shall carry in there, inside the veil, the ark of the testimony. And the veil shall separate to you between the holy and between the holy of the holies.
EXO 26:34 And you shall cover up by the veil the ark of the testimony in the holy of the holies.
EXO 26:35 And you shall put the table outwardly of the veil, and the lamp-stand directly opposite the table near the part of the tent towards the south. And the table you shall put by the part of the tent towards the north.
EXO 26:36 And you shall make a draw curtain to the door - of blue, and purple, and scarlet being twined, and linen being twined - a work of an embroiderer.
EXO 26:37 And you shall make for the veil five posts. And you shall gild them with gold, and the tips of them made of gold. And you shall cast for them five bases of brass.
EXO 27:1 And you shall make an altar from out of incorruptible woods, of five cubits the length, and five cubits the breadth. The altar will be four-cornered, and its height three cubits.
EXO 27:2 And you shall make the horns upon the four corners. The horns shall be part of it. And you shall cover them in brass.
EXO 27:3 And you shall make a rim to the altar. And its lid, and its bowls, and its meat hooks, and its censer, and all its utensils you shall make of brass.
EXO 27:4 And you shall make for it a latticed brass grate work. And you shall make for the grate four rings of brass upon the four sides.
EXO 27:5 And you shall place them under the grate of the altar from below. And the grate will be for half of the altar.
EXO 27:6 And you shall make to the altar bearing poles from out of incorruptible woods; and you shall brass plate them in brass.
EXO 27:7 And you shall bring the bearing poles into the rings; and let the bearing poles be according to the sides of the altar, in the lifting it!
EXO 27:8 You shall make it hollow planked. According to the holding forth of the example to you on the mountain - thus you shall make it.
EXO 27:9 And you shall make a courtyard to the tent in the side, the one towards the south. And you shall make shrouds for the courtyard from out of linen being twined, the length a hundred cubits to the one side.
EXO 27:10 And their posts - twenty; and their bases - twenty, of brass; and their hooks, and their clips made of silver.
EXO 27:11 So also to the side towards the north you shall make shrouds a hundred cubits in length, and their posts - twenty; and their bases - twenty, made of brass; and their hooks, and the clips for the posts, and the bases being silver plated with silver metal.
EXO 27:12 And for the breadth of the courtyard by the west you shall make shrouds of fifty cubits; their posts - ten; and their bases - ten.
EXO 27:13 And the breadth of the courtyard towards the east you shall make shrouds of fifty cubits; their posts - ten, and their bases - ten.
EXO 27:14 And fifteen cubits for the shrouds is to be the height to the one side; their posts - three, and their bases - three.
EXO 27:15 And for the second side fifteen cubits for the shrouds is to be the height; their posts - three, and their bases - three.
EXO 27:16 And in the gate of the courtyard shall be a covering twenty cubits in height, made from out of blue, and purple, and scarlet being twined, and linen being twined, in the embroidery of the stitcher; their posts - four, and their bases - four.
EXO 27:17 All the posts of the courtyard round about being plated in silver, and their tips made of silver, and their bases of brass.
EXO 27:18 And the length of the courtyard - a hundred by a hundred. And the breadth - fifty by fifty. And the height - five cubits from out of linen being twined. And their bases were of brass.
EXO 27:19 And all the furniture, and all the work tools, and the stanchions of the courtyard were of brass.
EXO 27:20 And you give orders to the sons of Israel! And let them take to you olive oil from olive trees free from impurities, being beaten pure for a light, that a lamp should burn always!
EXO 27:21 In the tent of the testimony, from outside the veil by the covenant, Aaron shall burn it, and his sons, from evening until morning before the LORD - eternal law unto your generations by the sons of Israel.
EXO 28:1 And you lead forward to yourself both Aaron your brother, and his sons, from out of the sons of Israel, to officiate as priest to me - Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron!
EXO 28:2 And you shall make holy apparel for Aaron your brother, for honor and glory.
EXO 28:3 And you speak to all the wise in the thought, whom I filled with a spirit of wisdom and perception! And they shall make the holy apparel for Aaron, for the holy place, in which he shall officiate as priest to me.
EXO 28:4 And these are the apparels which they shall make - the breast-plate, and the shoulder-piece, and the foot length robe, and a fringed inner garment, and turban, and belt. And they shall make holy apparels for Aaron, and to his sons, for officiating as priest to me.
EXO 28:5 And they shall take the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the linen.
EXO 28:6 And they shall make the shoulder-piece from out of linen being twined - a woven work of an embroiderer.
EXO 28:7 Two shoulder-pieces will be to him, being held together the other to the other, attached upon the two parts.
EXO 28:8 And the woven work of the shoulder-pieces which is upon him, concerning the making of it, shall be from pure gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined.
EXO 28:9 And you shall take the two stones - stones of emerald; and you shall carve on them the names of the sons of Israel.
EXO 28:10 Six names upon the one stone, and six names remaining upon the second stone, according to their births.
EXO 28:11 A work of a stonecutter's craft; as a carving of a seal, you shall carve the two stones with the names of the sons of Israel.
EXO 28:12 And you shall put the two stones upon the shoulders of the shoulder-piece. They are stones of memorial to the sons of Israel. And Aaron shall lift up the names of the sons of Israel before the LORD upon his two shoulders, as a memorial for them.
EXO 28:13 And you shall make bezels from pure gold.
EXO 28:14 And you shall make two bordered fringes from out of pure gold, being mixed with a work of wreathen flowers. And you shall place the bordered fringes being plaited upon the bezels, on their shoulder straps from the front.
EXO 28:15 And you shall make an oracle of the judgments - a work of an embroiderer; according to the proportion of the shoulder-piece you shall make it; from gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being twined, and linen being twined you shall make it.
EXO 28:16 Four-cornered it shall be, doubled; a span the length, and a span the breadth.
EXO 28:17 And you shall interweave in it a woven work inlaid with precious stones, arranged in four rows. A row of stones will be sardius, topaz, and emerald - for the one row.
EXO 28:18 And the second row, carbuncle, and sapphire, and jasper.
EXO 28:19 And the third row, amber, and agate, and amethyst.
EXO 28:20 And the fourth row, chrysolite, and beryl, and onyx; being covered all around in gold and being tied together by gold - let them be according to their row!
EXO 28:21 And let the stones be of the names of the sons of Israel - twelve, according to their names - carvings as seals each! Let them be according to the names for the twelve tribes!
EXO 28:22 And you shall make upon the oracle a border being a closely joined; a chain work of pure gold.
EXO 28:23 And you shall make upon the oracle two golden rings, and shall place the two golden rings upon both the corners of the oracle.
EXO 28:24 And you shall put upon the borders even the chain-works of gold upon the two rings upon both of the sides of the oracle.
EXO 28:25 And two sides of the two borders you shall place upon the two wreaths. And you shall place them upon the shoulders of the shoulder-piece right opposite in front.
EXO 28:26 And you shall make two rings of gold, and shall place them upon the two borders of the oracle; upon the tip from tip of the posterior of the shoulder-piece within.
EXO 28:27 And you shall make two rings of gold, and you shall place them upon both of the shoulders of the shoulder-piece from below it, according to the front, according to the coupling from above the woven part of the shoulder-piece.
EXO 28:28 And you shall clasp the oracle by the rings upon it to the rings of the shoulder-piece, banded together of the blue work, closely joined to the woven work of the shoulder-piece, that the oracle should not slacken from the shoulder-piece.
EXO 28:29 And Aaron shall receive the names of the sons of Israel upon the oracle of the judgment, upon the breast, entering into the holy place, as a memorial before God.
EXO 28:30 And you shall place upon the oracle of the judgment the Manifestation and the Truth. And it shall be upon the breast of Aaron, whenever he should enter into the holy place before the LORD. And Aaron shall bring the judgments of the sons of Israel upon the breast before the LORD always.
EXO 28:31 And you shall make a foot length robe undergarment entirely of blue.
EXO 28:32 And the cleft of it will be in the middle, having an edge round about the cleft - a work of a weaver, being woven together in the coupling of it, that it should not be torn.
EXO 28:33 And you shall make upon the hem of the undergarment below, as it were of a blossoming pomegranate - figures of pomegranates from out of blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined, upon the hem of the undergarment round about. And the form of it as the figures of pomegranates of gold, and bells in between these that are surrounding.
EXO 28:34 By the figure of a pomegranate a golden bell, and a flowered work upon the hem of the undergarment round about.
EXO 28:35 And it shall be in the officiating of Aaron; his sound will be audible entering into the holy place before the LORD, and his exiting - that he might not die.
EXO 28:36 And you shall make a panel of pure gold, and shall shape on it an impression seal, saying, - Sanctified of the LORD.
EXO 28:37 And you shall place it upon blue being twined, and it will be upon the mitre - in front of the mitre it shall be.
EXO 28:38 And it shall be upon the forehead of Aaron. And Aaron shall lift away the sins of the holy things, whatever as much as the sons of Israel should sanctify by every gift of their holy things; and it will be upon the forehead of Aaron always - accepted for them before the LORD.
EXO 28:39 And the fringes of the inner garments shall be of linen. And you shall make a fine linen turban; and you shall make a belt - the work of an embroiderer.
EXO 28:40 And to the sons of Aaron you shall make inner garments, and belts; and you shall make turbans for them, for honor and glory.
EXO 28:41 And you shall put them on Aaron your brother, and his sons with him. And you shall anoint them, and shall fill their hands. And you shall sanctify them, that they should officiate as priests to me.
EXO 28:42 And you shall make for them flaxen linen pants to cover the indecency of their flesh - from the loin unto the thighs it shall be.
EXO 28:43 And Aaron shall have them, and his sons, whenever they should enter into the tent of the testimony, or whenever they should go to officiate to the altar of the holy place, and thus they shall not bring upon themselves sin, that they should not die - an eternal law for him, and his seed after him.
EXO 29:1 And these are what you shall do to them, to sanctify them, so as to officiate as priest to me. You shall take one young calf from out of the oxen, and two unblemished rams,
EXO 29:2 and unleavened breads being mixed up with olive oil, and unleavened pancakes being coated with olive oil - you shall make them of fine flour of wheat.
EXO 29:3 And you shall place them unto one bin, and shall offer them unto the bin, and the young calf, and the two rams.
EXO 29:4 And Aaron and his sons you shall lead forward at the door of the tent of the testimony, and shall bathe them in water.
EXO 29:5 And taking the apparels, you shall put on Aaron your brother both the inner garment, the foot length robe, and the shoulder-piece, and the oracle; and you shall join it - the oracle to the shoulder-piece.
EXO 29:6 And you shall place the mitre upon his head, and shall place the sanctified panel upon the mitre.
EXO 29:7 And you shall take of the oil of the scented unguent, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.
EXO 29:8 And his sons you shall lead forward, and put on them the inner garments.
EXO 29:9 And you shall tie around them the belts, and shall put on them the turbans, and it will be for them a priesthood to me into the eon. And you shall perfect the hands of Aaron, and the hands of his sons.
EXO 29:10 And you shall lead forward the calf unto the door of the tent of the testimony. And Aaron and his sons shall place their hands upon the head of the calf, before the LORD, by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
EXO 29:11 And you shall slay the calf before the LORD by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
EXO 29:12 And you shall take from the blood of the calf, and put it upon the horns of the altar with your finger. And all the remaining blood you shall discharge by the base of the altar.
EXO 29:13 And you shall take all the fat upon the belly, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, and shall place it upon the altar.
EXO 29:14 But the meats of the calf, and the skin, and the dung, you shall incinerate with fire outside the camp, for it is a sin offering.
EXO 29:15 And you shall take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall place their hands upon the head of the ram.
EXO 29:16 And you shall slay the ram. And taking the blood of it, you shall pour it upon the altar round about.
EXO 29:17 And the ram you shall cut in pieces according to its limbs. And you shall wash the entrails, and the feet in water. And you shall place them upon the pieces with the head.
EXO 29:18 And you shall offer all the ram upon the altar, as a whole burnt offering to the LORD, for a scent of pleasant aroma - it is a sacrifice offering to the LORD.
EXO 29:19 And you shall take the ram - the second; and Aaron and his sons shall place their hands upon the head of the ram.
EXO 29:20 And you shall slay it, and take of the blood of it, and place it upon the lobe of the ear of Aaron - the right one, and upon the big toe of the foot - the right one, and upon the lobes of the right ears of his sons, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the big toes of their right feet.
EXO 29:21 And you shall take of the blood from the altar, and from the oil of the anointing, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his apparel, and upon his sons, and upon the apparels of his sons with him. And you shall sanctify him, and his apparel, and his sons, and the apparels of his sons with him. And the blood of the ram you shall pour before the altar round about.
EXO 29:22 And you shall take from the ram its fat, both the fat covering up the belly, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, and the right shoulder - for this is a consecration offering.
EXO 29:23 And one bread made with olive oil, and one pancake from the bin of the unleavened breads being set before the LORD.
EXO 29:24 And you shall place the whole amount upon the hands of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons. And you shall separate them as a separation offering before the LORD.
EXO 29:25 And you shall take them from their hands, and you shall offer them upon the altar of the whole burnt offering, as a scent of pleasant aroma before the LORD - it is a yield offering to the LORD.
EXO 29:26 And you shall take the breast from the ram of the consecration offering, which is Aaron's. And you shall separate it as a separation offering before the LORD - and it will be to you for a portion.
EXO 29:27 And you shall sanctify the separation offering breast, and the shoulder of the choice portion which has been separated, and which has been removed from the ram of the consecrationn offering - from Aaron, and from his sons.
EXO 29:28 And it will be to Aaron, and to his sons an eternal law for the sons of Israel, for this is a choice portion; and it will be a choice portion by the sons of Israel from the things offered in sacrifices of the deliverance offerings - a choice portion to the LORD.
EXO 29:29 And the apparel of the holy place, which is Aaron's, shall be to his sons after him, for them to be anointed in them, and to perfect their hands.
EXO 29:30 Seven days he shall put them on - the priest replacing him from his sons, who shall enter into the tent of the testimony to officiate in the holy place.
EXO 29:31 And the ram of the consecration offering you shall take; and you shall boil the meats in the holy place.
EXO 29:32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the meats of the ram, and the breads of the ones in the bin by the door of the tent of the testimony.
EXO 29:33 They shall eat them by which they were sanctified by them, to perfect their hands, to sanctify them. And a foreigner shall not eat from them, for it is holy.
EXO 29:34 And if anything should be left behind from the meats of the sacrifice of the consecration offering, and of the breads until morning - you shall incinerate the remainder with fire; it shall not be eaten, for it is sanctified.
EXO 29:35 And you shall do for Aaron, and his sons thus, according to all as much as I gave charge to you. Seven days you shall perfect their hands.
EXO 29:36 And the young calf of the sin offering you shall offer in the day of the cleansing. And you shall cleanse the altar in your sanctifying upon it, and you shall anoint it so as to sanctify it.
EXO 29:37 Seven days you shall cleanse the altar, and sanctify it. And the altar will be a holy of the holies; all touching the altar shall be sanctified.
EXO 29:38 And these are what you shall offer upon the altar - lambs of a year old, unblemishled, two for each day perpetually - a yield offering of perpetuity.
EXO 29:39 The lamb - the first one you shall offer in the morning, and the second lamb, you shall offer at dusk.
EXO 29:40 And a tenth measure of fine flour being mixed with olive oil being beaten to the fourth part of a hin; and a libation - the fourth part of the hin of wine to the lamb - to the first one.
EXO 29:41 And the second lamb you shall offer at dusk, after the manner of the early morning sacrifice offering, and according to its libation - you shall do it for a scented pleasant aroma, a yield offering to the LORD;
EXO 29:42 a perpetual sacrifice offering unto your generations upon the doors of the tent of the testimony before the LORD - in which I will be known to you there, so as to speak to you.
EXO 29:43 And I will give orders there to the sons of Israel, and I will be sanctified in my glory.
EXO 29:44 And I will sanctify the tent of the testimony, and the altar. And Aaron and his sons I will sanctify to officiate as priests to me.
EXO 29:45 And I will be called upon by the sons of Israel, and I will be their God.
EXO 29:46 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, the one leading them from out of the land of Egypt, to be called upon by them, and to be their God.
EXO 30:1 And you shall make an altar of incense from out of incorruptible wood.
EXO 30:2 And you shall make it a cubit in length, and a cubit in breadth - four-cornered is shall be, and two cubits in height; from out of it will be its horns.
EXO 30:3 And you shall gild these in pure gold - its grate and its walls round about, and its horns. And you shall make for it a twisted gold rim round about.
EXO 30:4 And two rings of pure gold for it you shall make under its twisted rim for the two corners. You shall make them on two sides, and they will be clips for the staves, so as to lift it by them.
EXO 30:5 And you shall make staves from out of incorruptible wood, and you shall gild them in gold.
EXO 30:6 And you shall put it before the veil being for the ark of the testimony, in which I shall be made known to you there.
EXO 30:7 And Aaron shall burn incense upon it; incense compounded fine - in the morning by morning. Whenever he should trim the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.
EXO 30:8 And whenever Aaron should light up the lamps late, he shall burn incense upon it - incense of perpetuity, always before the LORD unto your generations.
EXO 30:9 And you shall not offer upon it another incense. A yield offering, and a sacrifice offering, and a libation you shall not offer upon it.
EXO 30:10 And Aaron shall atone upon its horns once a year. From the blood of the cleansing of the sins of the making an atonement once a year he shall cleanse it for your generations - it is a holy of holies to the LORD.
EXO 30:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 30:12 If you should take the assessment of the sons of Israel in the overseeing of them, then each shall give ransoms for his soul to the LORD, and there shall not be among them a failure in the overseeing of them.
EXO 30:13 And this is what they shall give, as many as pass the numbering - the half double-drachma, which it shall be according to the double-drachma of the holy place - twenty oboli to the double-drachma; but the half double-drachma is a contribution to the LORD.
EXO 30:14 Every one passing in the numbering from twenty years old and above shall give the contribution to the LORD.
EXO 30:15 The ones being rich shall not add more, and the ones needing shall not add less from the half of the double-drachma, in the giving the contribution to the LORD to atone for your souls.
EXO 30:16 And you shall take the silver of the contribution given by the sons of Israel, and you shall give it for the upkeep of the tent of the testimony. And it will be to the sons of Israel as a memorial before the LORD, to atone for your souls.
EXO 30:17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 30:18 Make a bathing tub of brass, and a base for it of brass, so as to wash. And you shall put it between the tent of the testimony, and between the altar. And you shall pour water into it.
EXO 30:19 And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet from it.
EXO 30:20 Whenever they should enter into the tent of the testimony they shall wash in water, and no way shall they die. Or whenever they should go to the altar to officiate and to offer the whole burnt offerings to the LORD,
EXO 30:21 they shall wash their hands and their feet in water, that they should not die. And it will be to them an eternal law, to him and his generations after him.
EXO 30:22 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 30:23 And you take spices, the flower of choice myrrh - five hundred shekels, and sweet smelling cinnamon half of this - two hundred and fifty, and sweet smelling calamus - two hundred fifty,
EXO 30:24 and of oil of cassia - five hundred shekels of the holy place, and olive oil from olives - a hin!
EXO 30:25 And you shall make it a holy scented unguent oil, a perfumed liquid scented by the craft of a perfumer - it shall be a holy scented unguent oil.
EXO 30:26 And you shall anoint with it the tent of the testimony, and the ark of the testimony,
EXO 30:27 and all its utensils, and the lamp-stand, and its utensils, and the altar of the of incense,
EXO 30:28 and the altar of the whole burnt offerings, and all its utensils, and the table, and all its utensils, and the bathing tub, and its base.
EXO 30:29 And you shall sanctify them, and they shall be a holy of the holies. Every one touching them shall be sanctified.
EXO 30:30 And Aaron and his sons you shall anoint, and sanctify them to officiate as priests to me.
EXO 30:31 And to the sons of Israel you shall speak, saying, An oil of anointing - this will be a holy anointing to you into your generations.
EXO 30:32 You shall not anoint with it upon the flesh of man. And concerning this composition, you shall not make any to you yourselves likewise - it is holy, and it shall be sanctified to you.
EXO 30:33 Who ever should make likewise, and who ever should give of it to a foreigner, he shall be utterly destroyed from his people.
EXO 30:34 And the LORD said to Moses, Take to yourself spices - balsam, and onycha, and luscious galbanum, and transparent frankincense, equal to equal it will be.
EXO 30:35 And they shall make a scented incense with it, a work of a perfumer - a pure holy work being mixed.
EXO 30:36 And you shall cut of these into fine parts, and you shall put it before the testimony in the tent of the testimony, from where I will be known to you from there. It will be to you a holy of the holies incense.
EXO 30:37 According to this composition you shall not make to you yourselves - it shall be a sanctified thing to you to the LORD.
EXO 30:38 Who ever should make likewise so as to smell by it shall be destroyed from out of his people.
EXO 31:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 31:2 Behold, I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
EXO 31:3 And I filled him a divine spirit of wisdom, and understanding, and higher knowledge, to consider in every work,
EXO 31:4 and to supervise construction; to work the gold, and the silver, and the brass, and the blue, and the purple, and the spun scarlet,
EXO 31:5 and the linen being twined, and the stonecutting works, and for the woodworkers of the works of wood - to work according to all the works.
EXO 31:6 And I have given him even Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. And to every one discerning in heart I have given understanding. And they shall make all as much as I gave orders to you -
EXO 31:7 the tent of the testimony, and the ark of the covenant, and the atonement-seat upon it, and the equipment of the tent,
EXO 31:8 and the altars, and the table, and all the utensils of it, and the pure lamp-stand, and all the utensils of it,
EXO 31:9 and the bathing tub, and its base,
EXO 31:10 and the ministry apparels of Aaron, and the apparels of his sons in the officiating as priest to me,
EXO 31:11 and the anointing oil, and the incense of the composition of the holy place. According to all as much as I gave charge to you they shall make.
EXO 31:12 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 31:13 And you speak to the sons of Israel, saying! Perceive and guard my sabbaths! For it is a sign by me and among you unto your generations, that you might know that I the LORD am the one sanctifying you.
EXO 31:14 And you shall guard the sabbath, for it is holy to you. The one profaning it, unto death shall be put to death. Every one who shall do work on it, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from the midst of his people.
EXO 31:15 Six days you shall do works, but the seventh day is a holy sabbath rest to the LORD. All who shall do work on the day of the sabbaths shall be put to death.
EXO 31:16 And the sons of Israel shall guard the sabbaths to observe them unto their generations.
EXO 31:17 It is an eternal covenant with me and the sons of Israel - it is an eternal sign. For in six days the LORD made the heaven and the earth, and on the seventh day he ceased and rested.
EXO 31:18 And he gave to Moses, when he rested from speaking to him in mount Sinai, the two tablets of the testimony - tablets of stone, written by the finger of God.
EXO 32:1 And the people seeing that Moses passed time to come down from out of the mountain, the people stood together by Aaron. And they say to him, Rise up, and make for us gods, who will go before us! For Moses, this man who led us from out of the land of Egypt, we know not what has happened to him.
EXO 32:2 And Aaron says to them, Remove the gold ear-rings in the ears of your wives, and daughters, and bring them to me!
EXO 32:3 And all the people removed the gold ear-rings in their ears, and they brought them to Aaron.
EXO 32:4 And he took them from out of their hands, and shaped them with the stylus. And he made it a molten calf. And they said, These are your gods, O Israel, who hauled you from out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 32:5 And seeing, Aaron built an altar over against it. And Aaron proclaimed, saying, A holiday of the LORD is tomorrow.
EXO 32:6 And rising early in the next day, he offered whole burnt offerings, and offered the sacrifice of deliverance offering. And the people sat to eat and to drink, and they rose up to play.
EXO 32:7 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, Proceed quickly to go down from here, for your people whom you led from out of the land of Egypt acted lawlessly!
EXO 32:8 They violate quickly from the way which I gave charge to them; they made to themselves a calf, and they do obeisance to it, and they have sacrificed to it. And they said, These are your gods, O Israel, who hauled you from out of the land of Egypt.
EXO 32:9 And now allow me! For being enraged in anger against them, I will obliterate them.
EXO 32:10 And I will make you into a great nation.
EXO 32:11 And Moses beseeched in front of the LORD God, and said, Why, O LORD, be enraged in anger against your people, whom you led from out of the land of Egypt in great strength, and with your high arm?
EXO 32:12 Lest at any time the Egyptians should say, in saying, With wickedness he led them to kill them in the mountains, and to completely consume them from the earth. Cease the anger of your rage, and be propitious to the evil of your people,
EXO 32:13 remembering Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob your servants, to whom you swore by an oath to them according to yourself! And you spoke to them, saying, I will greatly multiply your seed as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and all this land which you spoke of to give it to their seed, so that they shall hold it into the eon.
EXO 32:14 And the LORD dealt kindly concerning the bad which he said he would do to his people.
EXO 32:15 And Moses returning, went down from the mountain, and the two tablets of the testimony were in his hands - tablets of stone, having been written on both their parts; on this side and that side they were written.
EXO 32:16 And the tablets were a work of God, and the writing is a writing of God chiseled in the tablets.
EXO 32:17 And Joshua hearing the voice of the people crying out, says to Moses, It is a sound of war in the camp.
EXO 32:18 And he says, It is not a sound originating from strength, nor a sound originating by a routing of the enemy, but a sound originating from wine I hear.
EXO 32:19 And when he approached the camp, he sees the calf, and the company of dancers. And Moses being provoked to anger in rage, tossed from his hands the two tablets, and broke them below the mountain.
EXO 32:20 And having taken the calf which they made, he incinerated it in fire, and ground it fine, and sowed it upon the water, and made the sons of Israel drink it.
EXO 32:21 And Moses said to Aaron, What did this people do to you, that you brought upon them a great sin?
EXO 32:22 And Aaron said to Moses, Be not provoked to anger, O master, for you know the impulse of this people!
EXO 32:23 For they say to me, Make to us gods, which shall go before us! For this man Moses, who led us out of Egypt, we know not what has happened to him.
EXO 32:24 And I said to them, Anyone who possesses pieces of gold, remove them! And they gave them to me, and I tossed them into the fire, and there came forth this calf.
EXO 32:25 And Moses seeing the people, that they have been dispersed, (for Aaron dispersed them to be a derision to their opponents),
EXO 32:26 that Moses stood at the gate of the camp, and he said, Who is for the LORD? Come to me! Then all the sons of Levi came together to him.
EXO 32:27 And he says to them, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, Let each put on himself a broadsword upon his thigh! And let him go through and return from gate to gate through the camp! And let each kill his brothers, and each his neighbor, and each the one nearest him!
EXO 32:28 And the sons of Levi did as Moses said to them. And there fell of the people in that day three thousand males.
EXO 32:29 And Moses said to them, You filled your hands today to the LORD, each one on his brother, and his son, to give unto you a blessing.
EXO 32:30 And it came to pass with the next morning, Moses said to the people, You have sinned a great sin. And now, I will ascend to God that I might make atonement on account of your sin.
EXO 32:31 And Moses returned to the LORD, and said, I beseech, O LORD, this people have sinned a great sin, and made to themselves golden gods.
EXO 32:32 And now, if forasmuch as you forgive them of their sin - forgive! But if not, wipe me away from out of your book which you wrote!
EXO 32:33 And the LORD said to Moses, If any sin before me, I will wipe them from out of my book.
EXO 32:34 And now, proceed, and guide this people into the place which I told to you! Behold, my angel shall go forth before your face, and in whatever day I should visit, I will bring upon them their sin.
EXO 32:35 And the LORD struck the people on account of the making of the calf, which Aaron made.
EXO 33:1 And the LORD said to Moses, Go forth, ascend from here, you and your people, which you led from out of the land of Egypt, into the land which I swore by an oath to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob! saying, To your seed I will give it.
EXO 33:2 And I will send along my angel before your face; and he will cast out the Amorite, and Hittite, and Perizzite, and Gergasite, and Hivite, and Jebusite, and Canaanite.
EXO 33:3 And I will bring you into a land flowing milk and honey. For I will not go up with you, because you are a hard-necked people, that I should not completely consume you in the way.
EXO 33:4 And the people hearing this severe saying, mourned in mourning.
EXO 33:5 And the LORD said to the sons of Israel, You are a people hard-necked. See that I bring not another calamity upon you, and should completely consume you! Now then, remove your glorious apparels, and the ornament, and I will show to you what I will do to you!
EXO 33:6 And the sons of Israel removed their ornamentation, and the attire at the mountain of Horeb.
EXO 33:7 And Moses, taking his tent, pitched outside the camp far from the camp. And it was called - Tent of Testimony. And it came to pass, all the ones seeking the LORD went forth unto the tent outside the camp.
EXO 33:8 And whenever Moses entered into the tent outside the camp, all the people stood watching, each one by the door of his tent. And they contemplated Moses' going away unto his entering into the tent.
EXO 33:9 And as Moses entered into the tent, the column of cloud came down, and stood at the door of the tent, and he spoke to Moses.
EXO 33:10 And all the people saw the column of cloud standing by the door of the tent. And all the people stood and did obeisance, each from the door of his tent.
EXO 33:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses face to face, as if any might speak to his own friend. And he retired into the camp. And the attendant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not go forth from out of the tent.
EXO 33:12 And Moses said to the LORD, Behold, you say to me, Lead this people! But you manifested not to me whom you shall send along with me. But you said to me, I know you above all, and you have favor with me.
EXO 33:13 If then I have found favor before you, reveal to me yourself knowingly, that I might see you, how ever I should be found in favor before you, and that I might know that this nation is your people!
EXO 33:14 And he says, I myself will go before you, and will rest you.
EXO 33:15 And he says to him, Unless you yourself should go with us, you should not lead me from here.
EXO 33:16 And how will it truly be made known that I have found favor by you - I and also your people, unless you are going with us, and both I and your people will be glorified by all the nations, as many as are upon the earth?
EXO 33:17 And the LORD said to Moses, And this word which you have said I will do to you, for you have found favor before me, and I know you above all.
EXO 33:18 And he says, Show to me your own glory!
EXO 33:19 And he said, I will go by in front of you in my glory, and will call the name, the LORD, before you; and I will show mercy on whom ever I should show mercy, and I will pity whom ever I should pity.
EXO 33:20 And he said, You will not be able to see my face; for not in any way may man see my face, and shall live.
EXO 33:21 And the LORD said, Behold, a place by me. And you shall stand upon the rock.
EXO 33:22 And when ever my glory should go by, even I will put you into an opening of the rock, and will shelter with my hand upon you until whenever I should go by.
EXO 33:23 And I shall remove the hand, and then you shall see the rear of me, but my face will not appear to you.
EXO 34:1 And the LORD said to Moses, Dress to yourself two tablets of stone as also the first, and ascend to me into the mountain, and I will write upon the tablets the words which were upon the first tablets, which you broke!
EXO 34:2 And come prepared in the morning, and you shall ascend upon mount Sinai, and you shall stand there to me upon the tip of the mountain!
EXO 34:3 And let no one ascend with you, nor appear in all the mountain! And the sheep and the oxen - let them not feed neighboring that mountain!
EXO 34:4 And he dressed two tablets of stone just as also the first. And Moses rising early in the morning, ascended unto mount Sinai, in so far as the LORD ordered him. And Moses took with himself the two tablets of stone.
EXO 34:5 And the LORD came down in a cloud, and stood beside him there, and called the name of the LORD.
EXO 34:6 And the LORD went by before his face, and called out, The LORD, The LORD God, pitying, and merciful, lenient, and full of mercy, and true,
EXO 34:7 and observing righteousness, and doing mercy for thousands, removing lawlessnesses, and iniquities, and sins; and the ones liable he will not cleanse; bringing the lawlessnesses of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children of the children, unto the third and fourth generation.
EXO 34:8 And Moses hastening, bowing upon the earth, did obeisance.
EXO 34:9 And he said, If I have found favor before you, let my LORD go with us! for the people is hard-necked. And you shall remove the sins, and our lawless deeds, and we will be yours.
EXO 34:10 And the LORD said to Moses, Behold, I establish with you a covenant before all your people. And will do honorable, which has not happened in all the earth, and with any nation. And all the people among whom you are shall see the works of the LORD, for it is wonderful what I will do for you.
EXO 34:11 You heed all as much as I give charge to you! Behold, I cast out before your face the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Gergasite, and the Jebusite.
EXO 34:12 Take heed to yourself, lest at any time you should establish a covenant with the ones lying in wait upon the land into which you enter into it! lest at any time it becomes an occasion of stumbling to you.
EXO 34:13 Their shrines you shall demolish, and their monuments you shall break, and their sacred groves you shall cut down, and the carvings of their gods you shall incinerate in fire.
EXO 34:14 For not in any way should you do obeisance to other gods. For the LORD God, a jealous name, is a jealous God;
EXO 34:15 lest at any time you should establish a covenant with the ones lying in wait upon the land, and they should fornicate after their gods, and should sacrifice to their gods, and they should call you, and you should eat of their sacrifice offerings;
EXO 34:16 and you should take of their daughters to your sons, and of your daughters you should give to their sons; and your daughters should fornicate after their gods, and your sons will fornicate after their gods.
EXO 34:17 And you shall not make to yourself molten gods.
EXO 34:18 And the holiday of the unleavened breads you shall guard; seven days you shall eat unleavened breads, just as I gave charge to you, at the time in the month of the new produce. For in the month of the new produce you came forth from out of Egypt.
EXO 34:19 All opening wide the womb are mine - the males; first-born of the calf, and of the sheep.
EXO 34:20 And a first-born beast of burden you shall ransom with a sheep. But if you will not ransom it, you shall give value for it. Every first-born of your sons you shall ransom. You shall not appear before me empty.
EXO 34:21 Six days you shall work, but the seventh day you shall rest - in the sowing, and in the harvest you shall rest.
EXO 34:22 And a holiday of a period of sevens you shall observe to me - the beginning of the harvest of wheat, and a holiday of gathering in the middle of the year.
EXO 34:23 Three times of the year every male of yours shall appear before the LORD God of Israel.
EXO 34:24 For whenever I shall cast out the nations from your face, and I widen your borders, he shall not desire one thing of your land - when ever you ascend to appear before the LORD your God three times a year.
EXO 34:25 You shall not slay the blood of my sacrifice offerings with yeast; and that which is offered in sacrifices shall not remain through the night into the morning for the holiday of the passover.
EXO 34:26 The first produce of your land you shall carry into the house of the LORD your God. You shall not boil a lamb in the milk of its mother.
EXO 34:27 And the LORD said to Moses, Write to yourself these words! For upon these words I have established to you a covenant, and to Israel.
EXO 34:28 And Moses was there before the LORD forty days and forty nights. Bread he ate not, and water he drank not. And he wrote upon the tablets these words of the covenant - the ten words.
EXO 34:29 And as Moses went down from mount Sinai, even the two tablets were upon the hands of Moses. And in his going down from the mountain, even Moses knew not that the appearance of the complexion of his face was glorified in his speaking to him.
EXO 34:30 And Aaron and all the sons of Israel saw Moses; and he was being glorified in the appearance of the complexion of his face. And they feared to approach to him.
EXO 34:31 And Moses called them; and Aaron turned towards him, and all the rulers of the congregation. And Moses spoke to them.
EXO 34:32 And after these things all the sons of Israel came forward to him. And he gave charge to them all as much as the LORD spoke to him on mount Sinai.
EXO 34:33 And as soon as he rested speaking to them, he placed upon his face a covering.
EXO 34:34 And when ever Moses entered before the LORD to speak to him, he removed the covering, until exiting. And going forth, he spoke to all the sons of Israel as much as the LORD gave charge to him.
EXO 34:35 And the sons of Israel saw the face of Moses, that it was glorified. And Moses put the covering upon his face, until whenever he entered to converse together with him.
EXO 35:1 And Moses gathered together all the congregation of the sons of Israel. And he said to them, These are the words which the LORD told them to do.
EXO 35:2 Six days you shall do works, but on the seventh day you shall rest a holy sabbath rest to the LORD; every one doing work on it - let him come to an end.
EXO 35:3 You shall not burn a fire in any place of your house on the day of the sabbaths - I am the LORD.
EXO 35:4 And Moses said to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying, This is the saying which the LORD ordered, saying,
EXO 35:5 Take from yourselves of them - a choice-portion to the LORD. Every one appreciating in his heart shall bring the first-fruits to the LORD - gold, silver, brass,
EXO 35:6 blue, purple, scarlet being spun double, and linen being twined, and hair of goats,
EXO 35:7 and skins of rams dyed red, and skins of blue, and incorruptible wood,
EXO 35:8 and oil for the giving light, and incense for the oil of the anointing, and for the compound of the incense,
EXO 35:9 and stones of sardius, and stones for the carving for the shoulder-piece and for the oracle.
EXO 35:10 And every wise one in thought among you, in coming, let him work all things as much as the LORD ordered -
EXO 35:11 the tent, and the covering sheets of leather, and the coverings, and the clasps, and the posts, and the bars, and the pegs, and bases,
EXO 35:12 the ark, and its bearing poles, and the atonement-seat, and the veil,
EXO 35:13 and the table, and its bearing poles, and all its utensils, and the breads of the place setting,
EXO 35:14 and the lamp-stand of the light, and all its utensils, and its lamps, and the oil of the light,
EXO 35:15 and the altar of the incense, and the bearing poles of it, and the oil of the anointing, and incense of the composition, and the draw curtain of the door of the tent,
EXO 35:16 and the altar of the whole burnt offering, and its brass grate, and its bearing poles, and all its utensils, and the bathing tub, and its base,
EXO 35:17 and the shrouds of the courtyard, and its posts,
EXO 35:18 and the pegs of the tent, and the pegs of the courtyard, and their cords, and the holy apparels of Aaron the priest,
EXO 35:19 and the apparels in which they officiate in them in the holy place, and the inner garments to the sons of Aaron of the priesthood, and the oil of the anointing, and the incense of the composition.
EXO 35:20 And went forth all the congregation of the sons of Israel from Moses.
EXO 35:21 And each brought what their heart offered. And the ones which it seemed good in their soul brought a choice portion to the LORD for all the works of the tent of the testimony, and for all the upkeep of it, and for all the holy apparels.
EXO 35:22 And the men brought from the women every thing which seemed good in their thought. They brought seals, and ear-rings, and rings, and wreaths, and right armbands - every item of gold.
EXO 35:23 And all as many as brought choice-portions of gold to the LORD, and all which was found by them of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and linen, and skins of rams being dyed red, and skins of blue - they brought.
EXO 35:24 And everyone removing the choice-portion silver and brass, brought the choice-portions to the LORD. And from whomever incorruptible wood was found for all the works of the preparation - they brought.
EXO 35:25 And every woman wise in considering with the hands to spin, brought works being spun - the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the linen.
EXO 35:26 And all the women to whom it seemed good in their consideration with wisdom, spun the hair of the goats.
EXO 35:27 And the rulers brought the stones of emerald, and the stones for the filling in the shoulder-piece, and for the oracle,
EXO 35:28 and the compositions, and for the oil of the anointing, and the composition of the incense.
EXO 35:29 And every man and woman which brought their consideration, entering to do all the work, as much as the LORD ordered them to do through Moses - the sons of Israel brought the choice-portion to the LORD.
EXO 35:30 And Moses said to the sons of Israel, Behold, God has called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
EXO 35:31 And he filled him with divine spirit of wisdom, and understanding, and of higher knowledge of all things;
EXO 35:32 to supervise construction according to all the works of the construction; to prepare the gold, and the silver, and the brass,
EXO 35:33 and to cut the stone, and to manufacture the wood things, and to produce with every work of wisdom.
EXO 35:34 And indeed God gave assistance in the considering to him, and also to Aholiab, to the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
EXO 35:35 And he filled them with wisdom of understanding in considering all things, to perceive, to make the works of the holy place, and the woven works, and embroidered works; to weave with the scarlet and with the linen; to make every work of construction and embroidery.
EXO 36:1 And Bezaleel prepared, and Aholiab, and all wise in the thought, in whom was given wisdom and higher knowledge for them to perceive to do all the works being fit for the holies,, according to all as much as the LORD ordered.
EXO 36:2 And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and all the ones having the wisdom, to whom God gave higher knowledge in the heart, and all of the ones voluntarily willing to go to the works so as to complete them.
EXO 36:3 And they took from Moses all the choice-portion offerings which the sons of Israel brought for all the works of the holy place, to prepare them. And they favorably received still the things being brought from the ones bringing morning by morning.
EXO 36:4 And all the wise ones came, the ones doing the works of the holy place, each according to his own work, which they worked.
EXO 36:5 And they said to Moses, that, The people bring a multitude for the works, as much as the LORD ordered to do.
EXO 36:6 And Moses assigned, and proclaimed in the camp, saying, Let a man and woman no longer work in the first-fruits of the holy place. And the people were restrained still to bring.
EXO 36:7 And the supply of works was to them enough for making the furniture; and they left surplus.
EXO 36:8 And every wise one in the thought among the ones working produced for the tent ten curtains from out of linen being twined, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being twined - he made them with cherubim the work of a weaver.
EXO 36:9 The length of the one curtain was eight and twenty cubits. And the breadth of four cubits was to the one curtain. The same measure was to all the curtains.
EXO 36:10 And five curtains were of one another, being held the other of the other. And five curtains were of one another, being held the other of the other.
EXO 36:11 And he made loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain joining the one part for the coupling. And thus he made upon the edge of the outer curtain for the second coupling.
EXO 36:12 And fifty loops he made for the one curtain, and fifty loops he made for the part of the curtain corresponding to the coupling of the second, facing headlong into one another each.
EXO 36:13 And he made fifty hooks of gold. And he joined together the curtains the other to an other by the hooks. And the tent became one.
EXO 36:14 And he made hide coverings of hair to protect over the tent. Eleven hide coverings he made them.
EXO 36:15 The length of the one hide covering was thirty cubits, and four cubits the breadth of the one hide covering. The same measure was to the eleven hide coverings.
EXO 36:16 And he joined together the five hide coverings to the same, and the six hide coverings to the same.
EXO 36:17 And he made fifty loops upon the edge of the one hide covering, in the middle by the coupling. And fifty loops he made upon the edge of the second hide covering joining.
EXO 36:18 And he made fifty hooks of brass. And he joined together the hooks by the loops, and joined together the hide coverings, and it became one.
EXO 36:19 And he made a covering for the tent - skins of rams dyed red, and coverings of skins of blue above.
EXO 36:20 And he made posts for the tent from out of incorruptible wood.
EXO 36:21 Ten cubits was the one post, and one cubit and a half the width of the one post.
EXO 36:22 Two joints to the one post resting headlong against the other to the other - thus he made all the posts of the tent.
EXO 36:23 And he made the posts of the tent - twenty posts by the side of the one towards the south.
EXO 36:24 And forty bases of silver he made for the twenty posts; two bases to the one post for both its parts, and two bases to the other one post for both its parts.
EXO 36:25 And the second side towards the north - twenty posts,
EXO 36:26 and forty bases for them made of silver; two bases to the one post for both its parts, and two bases to the other one post for both its parts.
EXO 36:27 And by the rear of the tent by the part towards the west, he made six posts.
EXO 36:28 And two posts he made at the corners of the tent at the posteriors.
EXO 36:29 And they were of equal below, and according to the same measurement they were equal from the heads unto one coupling - thus he made to both the two corners.
EXO 36:30 And there were eight posts; and their bases of silver - sixteen; two bases to the one post, and two bases to the one post, for both it parts.
EXO 36:31 And he made bars from out of incorruptible wood; five to the posts from the one part of the tent, and five bars to the posts to the second side of the tent,
EXO 36:32 and five bars for the posts to the posterior side of the tent to the one towards the west.
EXO 36:33 And the middle bar in between the posts penetrated from the one side unto the other side.
EXO 36:34 And the posts he gilded in gold, and their rings he made of gold for holders to the bearing poles, and gilded the bars in gold.
EXO 36:35 And he made a veil from out of blue, and purple, and scarlet being twined, and linen being spun. He made it a woven work with cherubim.
EXO 36:36 And he placed it upon four posts of incorruptible wood being gilded in gold. And their tips were golden, and their four bases were of silver.
EXO 36:37 And he made a draw curtain to the door of the tent of blue, and purple, and of scarlet being twined, and linen being twined - a work of an embroiderer;
EXO 36:38 and its five posts, and their tips. And he gilded their tips with gold. And he cast for them five bases of brass.
EXO 37:1 And Bezaleel made the ark from incorruptible wood; two cubits and a half was the length, and a cubit and a half was the width, and a cubit and a half was the height.
EXO 37:2 And he gilded it in pure gold from inside and from outside. And he made for it a waved border twisted of gold round about.
EXO 37:3 And he cast for it four golden rings upon its four sides. Two rings upon the one side, and two rings upon the second side.
EXO 37:4 And he made bearing poles of incorruptible wood, and gilded them with gold.
EXO 37:5 And he inserted the bearing poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to lift the ark by them.
EXO 37:6 And he made the atonement-seat lid of pure gold. Two cubits and a half was the length, and a cubit and a half was the width.
EXO 37:7 And he made two cherubim golden wrought. And he put them at both of the sides of the atonement-seat;
EXO 37:8 one cherub at this side, and one cherub at the second side of the atonement-seat - and thus he made the two cherubim upon the two sides of it.
EXO 37:9 And the two cherubim were stretching out the wings above, overshadowing with their wings over the atonement-seat, and their faces to one another - to the atonement-seat were the faces of the cherubim.
EXO 37:10 And he made the table from incorruptible wood - two cubits was the width, and a cubit the breadth, and a cubit and a half the height.
EXO 37:11 And he gilded it in pure gold.
EXO 37:12 And he made for it a twisted golden waved border round about. And he made for it a rim - a palm's width round about. And he made a twisted waved border round about the rim.
EXO 37:13 And he cast for it four golden rings, and placed the four rings upon the four parts by its feet.
EXO 37:14 By the waved border rim were the rings for a holder to the bearing poles, so as to lift the table.
EXO 37:15 And he made the bearing poles of incorruptible wood, and gilded them with gold, so as to lift the table.
EXO 37:16 And he made the utensils of the table, both its saucers, and the incense pans, and the cups, and the libation bowls in which the priest will offer libations in them - of pure gold.
EXO 37:17 And he made the lamp-stand of pure gold - being a turned piece he made the lamp-stand. Its stem, and the branches, and the basins, and the knobs, and the lilies were of it.
EXO 37:18 And six branches were going forth sideways - three branches of the lamp-stand from out of its one side, and three branches of the lamp-stand from out of the second side.
EXO 37:19 And three basins being shaped nut-like were on the one branch, with a knob and lily; and three basins being shaped nut-like on the one branch with a knob and a lily; thus to the six branches going forth from out of the lamp-stand.
EXO 37:20 And on the lamp-stand were four basins being shaped nut-like to the one branch, with the knobs, and its lilies.
EXO 37:21 The knob under the two branches of it, and a knob under the two branches of it, thus to the six branches going forth from out of the lamp-stand.
EXO 37:22 And the branches, and the knobs of it were entirely turned from out of one piece of pure gold.
EXO 37:23 And he made its seven lamps, and its tongs, and their oil funnels - of pure gold.
EXO 37:24 With a talent of pure gold he made all its items.
EXO 37:25 And he made an altar of incense from out of incorruptible wood. A cubit was the length of it, and a cubit was the breadth of it - four-cornered; and two cubits was the height of it; of it were its horns.
EXO 37:26 And he gilded it with pure gold - its grate, and its walls, and its horns. And he made for it a twisted gold rim round about.
EXO 37:27 And two rings of pure gold he made for it under its twisted rim for its two corners on its two sides, for holders for the bearing poles to lift it by them.
EXO 37:28 And he made the bars out of incorruptible wood, and gilded them with gold.
EXO 37:29 And he prepared the oil of the anointing the holy, and the composition of the incense - a pure work of a perfumer.
EXO 38:1 And he made an altar for a whole burnt offering out of incorruptible wood - of five cubits was the length, and five cubits the breadth; the altar was four-cornered; and its height was three cubits.
EXO 38:2 And he made the horns - upon the four corners of it were the horns, and he covered them in brass.
EXO 38:3 And he made a rim to the altar, and its lid, and its bowls, and its meat hooks, and its censer; and all its utensils he made of brass.
EXO 38:4 And he made for it a latticed brass grate work.
EXO 38:5 And he made for the grate four rings of brass upon the four sides. And he placed them under the grate of the altar from below; and the grate was unto half the altar.
EXO 38:6 And he made the bearing poles to the altar out of incorruptible wood; and he brass plated them in brass.
EXO 38:7 And he inserted the bearing poles at the sides of the altar in the lifting it. He made it hollow planked.
EXO 38:8 And he made the brass bathing tub, and the brass base of it, from out of the mirrors of the women that fasted, who fasted by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
EXO 38:9 And he made the courtyard. The things towards the south - shrouds for the courtyard from out of linen being twined - a hundred by a hundred.
EXO 38:10 And their posts - twenty, and their twenty brass bases; and their hooks and their clips were of silver.
EXO 38:11 And the side towards the north was a hundred by a hundred, and their posts - twenty, and their twenty brass bases; and their hooks and their clips were of silver.
EXO 38:12 And the side, towards the west - curtains of fifty cubits; their posts - ten, and their bases - ten; and their hooks and their clips were of silver.
EXO 38:13 And the side towards the east fifty cubits.
EXO 38:14 The shrouds of fifteen cubits according to the back, and their posts - three, and their bases - three.
EXO 38:15 And upon the back of the second on this side and that side according to the gate of the courtyard - curtains of fifteen cubits, and their posts - three, and their bases - three.
EXO 38:16 All the curtains for the tent were of linen being twined.
EXO 38:17 And the bases of their posts were of brass, and their loops were of of silver, and their tips being silver plated in silver, and the posts being silver plated in silver - all the posts of the courtyard.
EXO 38:18 And the veil of the gate of the courtyard - a work of an embroiderer, from out of blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined; twenty cubits was the length, and the height and breadth five cubits, being made equal to the shrouds of the courtyard.
EXO 38:19 And their posts - four; and their bases - four, were of brass; and their loops were of silver, and their tips being silver plated in silver.
EXO 38:20 And all the stanchions of the courtyard round about were of brass.
EXO 38:21 And this was the arrangement of the tent of the testimony, as was given orders to Moses, for the ministration to be of the Levites through Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
EXO 38:22 And Bezaleel the son of Uri, of the tribe of Judah, made as the LORD gave orders to Moses,
EXO 38:23 and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, who supervised construction - the woven works, and the stitched works, and the embroideries, woven in the blue and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen.
EXO 38:24 All the gold which was manufactured for the works according to all the work of the holies was of the gold of the first-fruit - nine and twenty talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, according to the holy shekel.
EXO 38:25 And of the silver, and the choice-portion offering from the men being numbered of the congregation - a hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred seventy five shekels, one drachma per head, the half shekel, according to the holy shekel,
EXO 38:26 for every one passing into the numbering, from a son twenty years and up, for the sixty ten thousands, and three thousand and five hundred fifty.
EXO 38:27 And came to pass the hundred talents of silver for the molten casting of the tips of the tent, and for the tips of the veil; a hundred tips for the hundred talents, a talent to the tip.
EXO 38:28 And the thousand seven hundred seventy five shekels he made for the loops for the posts; and he gilded their tips, and adorned them.
EXO 38:29 And the brass of the choice-portion offering was three hundred seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels.
EXO 38:30 And they made from out of it the bases of the door of the tent of the testimony, and the altar of brass with its grate, and all the utensils of the altar,
EXO 38:31 and the bases of the courtyard round about, and the bases of the gate of the courtyard, and the stanchions of the tent, and the stanchions of the courtyard round about.
EXO 39:1 And the leftover blue and purple and the scarlet they made into apparels for the ministry of Aaron, for the officiating in them in the holy place; as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:2 And they made the shoulder-piece from out of gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined.
EXO 39:3 And the panels were trimmed of the hairs of gold, so as to weave together with the blue, and the purple, and with the scarlet being spun, and with the linen being twined - a woven work they made it;
EXO 39:4 They made the shoulder-pieces held together by both of the parts; a woven work into one another being closely joined to itself.
EXO 39:5 From it they made according to the same making, of gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined; as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:6 And they made both of the stones of emerald, being clasped together and being inlaid in gold, being carved, and being engraved - an engravement seal of the names of the sons of Israel.
EXO 39:7 And they placed them upon the shoulders of the shoulder-piece; they are stones of memorial of the sons of Israel, as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:8 And they made the oracle - a woven work in the embroidery, according to the work of the shoulder-piece; of gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined.
EXO 39:9 They made the oracle four-cornered double. A span was the length, and a span was the breadth, doubled.
EXO 39:10 And they wove together in it a woven work inlaid with precious stones, arranged in four rows. A row of stones - sardius, and topaz, and emerald, was the one row.
EXO 39:11 And the second row - carbuncle, and sapphire, and jasper.
EXO 39:12 And the third row - amber, and agate, and amethyst;
EXO 39:13 and the fourth row - chrysolite, and beryl, and onyx; being surrounded by gold and being tied together by gold.
EXO 39:14 And the stones were of the names of the twelve sons of Israel, of their twelve names being engraved seals, each of its own name for the twelve tribes.
EXO 39:15 And they made a border upon the oracle, a work of wreath being closely joined from out of pure gold.
EXO 39:16 And they made two bezels of gold, and two rings of gold.
EXO 39:17 And they placed the two rings of gold upon both the corners of the oracle. And they placed the wreaths of gold upon the two rings, upon both of the parts of the oracle, and for the two couplings for the two wreaths.
EXO 39:18 And they placed them upon the two bezels of the shoulders of the shoulder-piece, right opposite down in front.
EXO 39:19 And they made two rings of gold. And they placed them upon the two fins at the tip of the oracle upon the tip of the posterior of the shoulder-piece from inside.
EXO 39:20 And they made two rings of gold, and placed them upon both of the shoulders of the shoulder-piece from below it, down in front, down from the coupling from above the woven part of the shoulder-piece.
EXO 39:21 And he fastened the oracle by the rings upon it, to the rings of the shoulder-piece, to hold it together - from out of blue, being closely joined into the woven work of the shoulder-piece, that the oracle would not slacken from the shoulder-piece, as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:22 And they made the undergarment under the shoulder-piece - a woven work, entirely of blue.
EXO 39:23 And the cleft of the undergarment was in the middle, being interwoven closely, having an edge round about the cleft, reinforced.
EXO 39:24 And they made upon the hem of the undergarment from below as it were of a blossoming pomegranate - figures of pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun, and linen being twined.
EXO 39:25 And they made bells of gold. And they placed the bells upon the hems of the undergarment round about, between the figures of pomegranates.
EXO 39:26 Bells of gold and pomegranate figures upon the hem of the undergarment round about, for the officiating, as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:27 And they made garments of fine linen, a woven work, for Aaron and his sons. And the turbans from out of linen,
EXO 39:28 and the mitre from out of linen, and the pants from out of linen being twined;
EXO 39:29 and \ their belts from out of linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet being spun - the work of an embroiderer; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:30 And they made the golden panel, a separation offering for the holy place, of pure gold. And they wrote upon it letters being shaped as of a seal, Sanctified to the LORD.
EXO 39:31 And they put upon it a hem of blue, so as to rest upon the mitre above; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:32 And all work of the tent of the testimony was completed. And the sons of Israel made according to all whatsoever the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 39:33 And they brought the tent to Moses, and all the items for it, and its rings, and its posts, and its bars, and its stanchions, and its bases,
EXO 39:34 and the leather coverings of skins of rams dyed red, and the skin coverings of blue, and the veil,
EXO 39:35 and the ark of the testimony, and its poles, and the altar,
EXO 39:36 and the table, and all its utensils, and the breads of the place setting,
EXO 39:37 and the pure lamp-stand, and its lamps - lamps for burning, and all its utensils, and the oil for the light,
EXO 39:38 and the golden altar, and the oil of the anointing, and the incense of the composition, and the draw curtain of the door of the tent,
EXO 39:39 and the altar brass, and its brass, and its bearing poles, and all of its items, and the bathing tub, and its base,
EXO 39:40 and the shrouds of the courtyard, and the posts, and its bases, and the draw curtain of the gate of the courtyard, and its lines, and its stanchions, and all the work tools for the works of the tent of the testimony, and the robes of the ministries for the ministering in them in the holy place,
EXO 39:41 and the apparels of the holy place which are for Aaron, and the apparels of his sons for the priesthood.
EXO 39:42 According to all as much as the LORD gave orders to Moses, thus the sons of Israel made all the accoutrements. And Moses saw all the works; and they were doing them in the manner the LORD gave orders
EXO 39:43 to Moses - thus they did them, and Moses blessed them.
EXO 40:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
EXO 40:2 On day one of the month of the first new moon you shall set up the tent of the testimony.
EXO 40:3 And you shall set up there the ark of the testimony. And you shall shelter the ark by the veil.
EXO 40:4 And you shall carry in the table. And you shall set its place setting. And you shall carry in the lamp-stand. And you shall place on it its lamps.
EXO 40:5 And you shall place the golden altar to burn incense before the ark of the testimony. And you shall place a covering veil upon the door of the tent.
EXO 40:6 And the altar of the yield offerings you shall put by the door of the tent of the testimony.
EXO 40:7 And you shall place the bathing tub between the tent of the testimony and between the altar. And you shall put water in it.
EXO 40:8 And you shall station the courtyard round about. And you shall station the veil of the gate of the courtyard.
EXO 40:9 And you shall take the oil of the scented unguent, and shall anoint the tent, and all the things in it. And you shall sanctify it, and all its items - and it shall be holy.
EXO 40:10 And you shall anoint the altar of the yield offerings, and all its utensils.
EXO 40:11 And you shall anoint the bathing tub, and its base. And you shall sanctify it. And you shall sanctify the altar. And it will be the altar of the holy of the holies.
EXO 40:12 And you shall lead Aaron and his sons unto the doors of the tent of the testimony, and you shall bathe them in water.
EXO 40:13 And you shall put on Aaron the holy apparels, and shall anoint him, and shall sanctify him, and he shall officiate as priest to me.
EXO 40:14 And his sons you shall lead forward, and shall put on them inner garments.
EXO 40:15 And you shall anoint them in which manner you anointed their father, and they shall officiate as priests to me. And it will be so as to be to them an anointing priesthood into the eon, unto their generations.
EXO 40:16 And Moses did all as much as the LORD gave charge to him - thus he did.
EXO 40:17 And it came to pass in the first month, in the second year of their going forth from out of Egypt, at the new moon, the tent was set up.
EXO 40:18 And Moses set up the tent, and placed the tips, and inserted the bars, and set up its posts.
EXO 40:19 And he stretched out the curtains upon the tent, and they placed the tent coverings upon it from above - as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:20 And taking the testimonies he put them into the ark, and placed the poles under the ark, and placed the atonement-seat upon the ark.
EXO 40:21 And he carried the ark into the tent, and set the covering of the veil; and it sheltered the ark of the testimony; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:22 And he placed the table in the tent of the testimony by the side of the tent of the testimony towards the north, from outside the veil of the tent.
EXO 40:23 And he set upon it the breads of the place setting before the LORD; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:24 And he put the lamp-stand in the tent of the testimony, before the table, to the side of the tent towards the south.
EXO 40:25 And he placed upon it its lamps before the LORD; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:26 And he put the golden altar in the tent of the testimony before the veil.
EXO 40:27 And he burned incense upon it, the incense of the composition; just as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:28 And he placed the draw curtain of the door of the tent.
EXO 40:29 And the altar of the yield offerings he put by the door of the tent of the testimony. And he offered on it a whole burnt offering, and a sacrifice offering; as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:30 And he put the bathing tub between the tent of the testimony, and between the altar. And he placed water in it,
EXO 40:31 for Moses and Aaron and his sons to wash from it their hands and feet,
EXO 40:32 in their entering into the tent of the testimony. Or whenever they went to the altar to officiate, they washed from it; as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
EXO 40:33 And he set up the courtyard round about the tent and the testimony. And he stationed the draw curtain of the door of the courtyard. And Moses completed all the works.
EXO 40:34 And the cloud covered the tent of the testimony, and the tent was filled of the glory of the LORD.
EXO 40:35 And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the testimony, for the cloud overshadowed upon it, and the tent was filled of the glory of the LORD.
EXO 40:36 And when ever the cloud ascended from the tent, the sons of Israel broke camp with their chattel.
EXO 40:37 But if the cloud ascends not, they did not break camp till the day which the cloud ascended.
EXO 40:38 For the cloud was upon the tent by day, and fire was upon it by night, before all Israel, in all their marchings.
LEV 1:1 And he called Moses, and the LORD spoke to him from out of the tent of the testimony, saying,
LEV 1:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, A man of you, if he should bring gift offerings to the LORD from the cattle, and from the oxen, and from the sheep - you shall bring your gift offerings thus.
LEV 1:3 If his gift offering be a whole burnt offering of the oxen, he shall bring an unblemished male for it, to the door of the tent of the testimony. He shall bring it acceptable before the LORD.
LEV 1:4 And he shall place his hand upon the head of the yield offering acceptable to him, to atone for him.
LEV 1:5 And they shall slay the calf before the LORD. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall bring the blood, and shall pour the blood upon the altar round about the one at the doors of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 1:6 And flaying the whole burnt offering, they shall dismember it by limbs.
LEV 1:7 And the sons of Aaron the priests shall put fire upon the altar. And they shall pile wood upon the fire.
LEV 1:8 And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pile up the pieces, and the head, and the fat upon the wood upon the fire being upon the altar.
LEV 1:9 But the intestines and the feet they shall wash in water. And the priest shall place the whole amount upon the altar - it is a yield offering sacrifice scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 1:10 And if his gift offering is from the sheep to the LORD, or also from the lambs, and of the kids, for a whole burnt offering, he shall bring an unblemished male for it. And he shall place his hand upon its head.
LEV 1:11 And they shall slay it by the side of the altar towards the north, before the LORD. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour the blood of it upon the altar round about.
LEV 1:12 And they shall divide it by limbs, and the head, and its fat. And the priests shall pile them upon the wood upon the fire upon the altar.
LEV 1:13 And the intestines and the feet they shall wash in water. And the priest shall bring the whole amount, and shall place them upon the altar - it is a yield offering sacrifice scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 1:14 But if from the birds he should bring his gift yield offering to the LORD, then he shall bring his gift from the turtle-doves or from the pigeons.
LEV 1:15 And the priest shall bring it to the altar, and shall pluck off its head. And the priest shall place it upon the altar, and shall wring out the blood to the base of the altar.
LEV 1:16 And he shall remove the crop with the feathers, and cast them by the altar according to the east, into the place of the ashes.
LEV 1:17 And he shall break it from the wings, and shall not divide it. And the priest shall place it upon the altar upon the wood upon the fire - it is a yield offering sacrifice scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 2:1 And if a soul should bring a gift offering sacrifice to the LORD, his gift offering shall be fine flour. And he shall pour upon it olive oil. And he shall place upon it frankincense - it is a sacrifice.
LEV 2:2 And he shall bring it to the sons of Aaron of the priests. And grabbing of it a full handful of the fine flour, with the olive oil, and all its frankincense, that the priest shall place its memorial portion upon the altar - a sacrifice scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 2:3 And the remainder of the sacrifice shall be for Aaron and to his sons; it is a holy of the holies of the sacrifices of the LORD.
LEV 2:4 And if he should bring a gift offering sacrifice being baked in an oven, it shall be of fine flour, of unleavened breads being mixed up with olive oil, or unleavened pancakes being smeared all over in olive oil.
LEV 2:5 And if a sacrifice from the frying pan is your gift offering, it shall be unleavened fine flour mixed up with olive oil.
LEV 2:6 And you shall break them into pieces, and you shall pour upon them olive oil - it is a sacrifice to the LORD.
LEV 2:7 And if your gift offering sacrifice be from the grate, it shall be made of fine flour with olive oil.
LEV 2:8 And you shall bring the sacrifice, what ever he should have made of these, to the LORD. And you shall bring it to the priest. And in drawing near to the altar,
LEV 2:9 the priest shall remove from the sacrifice the memorial portion of it. And the priest shall place it upon the altar - a yield offering scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 2:10 And the amount being left behind from the sacrifice shall be for Aaron and to his sons, a holy of the holies of the yield offerings of the LORD.
LEV 2:11 Every sacrifice which ever you should bring to the LORD, you shall not make leavened; for all yeast, and all honey you shall not offer of it, to yield to the LORD a gift offering.
LEV 2:12 Of first-fruit - you shall bring them to the LORD, but upon the altar they shall not be brought up for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 2:13 And every gift offering of your sacrifice shall be salted with salt. You shall not discontinue salt from the covenant of the LORD with your sacrifices; you shall offer salt upon all your gift offering.
LEV 2:14 And if you should bring a sacrifice of first produce to the LORD, it shall be new parched ground up green wheat to the LORD. And thus shall you bring the sacrifice of the first produce.
LEV 2:15 And you shall pour upon it olive oil. And you shall put upon it frankincense. It is a sacrifice offering.
LEV 2:16 And the priest shall offer the memorial portion of it from the green wheat with the olive oil, and all its frankincense - it is a yield offering to the LORD.
LEV 3:1 And if his gift offering be a sacrifice of deliverance to the LORD, and if then from out of his oxen he should bring it, if indeed a male, and if indeed a female, he shall bring it unblemished before the LORD.
LEV 3:2 And he shall place his hands upon the head of the gift offering, and shall slay it by the doors of the tent of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour the blood upon the altar of the whole burnt offerings round about.
LEV 3:3 And they shall bring, for the sacrifice of deliverance a yield offering to the LORD - the fat covering up the belly, and all the fat upon the belly,
LEV 3:4 and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, the part upon the thighs, and the lobe upon the liver, with the kidneys - it he shall remove.
LEV 3:5 And the sons of Aaron the priests shall offer them upon the altar, upon the whole burnt offerings, upon the wood upon the fire - a yield offering scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 3:6 And if his gift offering sacrifice of deliverance to the LORD is of the sheep, he shall bring an unblemished male or female for it.
LEV 3:7 If he should bring a lamb for his gift offering, he shall bring it before the LORD.
LEV 3:8 And he shall place hands upon the head of his gift offering, and shall slay it by the doors of the tent of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour the blood upon the altar round about.
LEV 3:9 And he shall bring from the sacrifice of deliverance a yield offering to the LORD - the fat, and the loin, unblemished with the flank - he shall remove it, and all the fat covering up the belly, and all the fat upon the belly,
LEV 3:10 and both the kidneys, and the fat upon them, and the fat upon the thighs, and the lobe upon the liver, with the kidneys being removed.
LEV 3:11 And the priest shall offer it upon the altar - a scent of pleasant aroma yield offering to the LORD.
LEV 3:12 And if his gift offering is from the goats, then he shall bring it before the LORD.
LEV 3:13 And he shall place the hands upon the head of it. And they shall slay it before the LORD by the doors of the tent of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour the blood upon the altar round about.
LEV 3:14 And he shall offer of it a yield offering to the LORD - the fat covering up the belly, and all the fat upon the belly,
LEV 3:15 and the two kidneys, and all the fat upon them, and the fat upon the thighs, and the lobe upon the liver with the kidneys - it he shall remove.
LEV 3:16 And the priest shall offer it upon the altar - a yield offering scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD. All fat belongs to the LORD,
LEV 3:17 as an everlasting law unto your generations in every dwelling of yours. All fat and all blood you shall not eat.
LEV 4:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 4:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! saying, If a soul should sin unintentionally from all of the orders of the LORD, of which things he must not be doing, and shall do any one of them;
LEV 4:3 if then the anointed chief priest should sin to cause the people to sin, then he shall bring for his sin of which he sinned an unblemished calf of the oxen to the LORD for the sin.
LEV 4:4 And he shall bring the calf by the door of the tent of the testimony before the LORD. And he shall place his hand upon the head of the calf before the LORD, and he shall slay the calf in the presence of the LORD.
LEV 4:5 And the anointed priest having perfected the hands taking from the blood of the calf even shall carry it into the tent of the testimony.
LEV 4:6 And the priest shall dip the finger into the blood, and shall sprinkle on from the blood seven times with the finger before the LORD at the holy veil.
LEV 4:7 And the priest shall put of the blood of the calf upon the horns of the altar of incense of the composition before the LORD, which is in the tent of the testimony. And he shall pour all the blood of the calf by the base of the altar of the yield offering, which is by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 4:8 And all the fat of the calf of the sin offering, even he shall remove from it the fat covering up the entrails, and all the fat upon the entrails,
LEV 4:9 and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them by the thighs; and the lobe upon the liver, with the kidneys - he shall remove it,
LEV 4:10 in which manner he removes from the calf of the sacrifice of the deliverance offering. And the priest shall offer upon the altar of the yield offering,
LEV 4:11 even the skin of the calf, and all of its flesh, with the head, and the extremities, and the belly, and the dung.
LEV 4:12 And they shall bring forth the entire calf outside the camp into a clean place, where they shall pour out the ashes. And they shall incinerate it upon wood with fire; it shall be burnt upon the outpouring of the ashes.
LEV 4:13 And if all the congregation of Israel should not know, it being unintentionally done, and the thing should be unaware from the eyes of the congregation, and they should do one trespass from all of the commandments of the LORD which should not be done, and they should trespass,
LEV 4:14 and the sin should be made known to them which they sinned by it; then the congregation shall bring a calf from out of the oxen, unblemished, for the sin offering; and it shall bring it by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 4:15 And the elders of the congregation shall place their hands upon the head of the calf before the LORD. And they shall slay the calf before the LORD.
LEV 4:16 And the anointed priest shall carry some of the blood of the calf into the tent of the testimony.
LEV 4:17 And the priest shall dip his finger into the blood of the calf, and shall sprinkle it seven times before the LORD in front of the holy veil.
LEV 4:18 And some of the blood the priest shall place upon the horns of the altar of the incenses of the composition, which is before the LORD, which is in the tent of the testimony. And he shall pour out all the blood before the base of the altar of the yield offering, being before the door of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 4:19 And he shall remove all of its fat from it, and shall offer it upon the altar.
LEV 4:20 And he shall offer the calf, in which manner he did the calf for the sin offering - so it shall be done. And the priest shall atone for them, and the sin shall be forgiven them.
LEV 4:21 And they shall bring forth the complete calf outside the camp. And they shall incinerate the calf in which manner they incinerated the calf formerly - it is a sin offering for the congregation.
LEV 4:22 And if the ruler should sin, and should commit one trespass of all of the commandments of the LORD his God which he should not do - unintentionally; and he should sin and should trespass,
LEV 4:23 and the sin by which he sinned by it should be known to him, then he shall bring his gift offering of a young he-goat from the goats - a male unblemished.
LEV 4:24 And he shall place his hand upon the head of the young he-goat, and they shall slay it in the place of which they slay the whole burnt offerings before the LORD - it is a sin offering.
LEV 4:25 And the priest shall place some of the blood of the one of the sin offering, with the finger, upon the horns of the altar of the whole burnt offerings, and shall pour out all of its blood by the base of the altar of the whole burnt offerings.
LEV 4:26 And he shall offer all of its fat upon the altar, as the fat sacrifice of deliverance. And the priest shall atone for him of his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.
LEV 4:27 And if one soul should sin unintentionally from among the people of the land, in the committing one trespass from all of the commandments of the LORD, which should not be done, and he should trespass,
LEV 4:28 and the sin should be made known to him, which he sinned by it, then he shall bring the gift offering - he shall offer an unblemished female yearling of the goats for the sin which he sinned.
LEV 4:29 And he shall place his hand upon the head of his sin offering; and they shall slay the yearling of the sin offering in the place where they slay the whole burnt offerings.
LEV 4:30 And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and shall put it upon the horns of the altar of the whole burnt offerings. And all of its blood he shall pour out by the base of the altar.
LEV 4:31 And all the fat he shall remove in which manner he removed the fat from the sacrifice of deliverance offering. And the priest shall offer it upon the altar for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD. And the priest shall atone for him, and it shall be forgiven him.
LEV 4:32 And if he should bring a sheep for his gift for the sin offering, he shall bring an unblemished female for it.
LEV 4:33 And he shall place his hand upon the head of the one for the sin offering. And they shall slay it for a sin offering in the place of which they slay the whole burnt offerings.
LEV 4:34 And the priest taking some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, he shall place it upon the horns of the altar of the whole offering; and all of its blood he shall pour out by the base of the altar of the whole burnt offering.
LEV 4:35 And all of its fat he shall remove in which manner the fat of the sheep from the sacrifice of deliverance offering was removed. And the priest shall place it upon the altar, upon the whole burnt offerings of the LORD. And the priest shall atone for him for the sin of which he sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.
LEV 5:1 And if a soul should sin, and should hear a voice of conjuring, and witness this, or see, or be fully conscious of it; if he should not report it, he takes responsibility for his sin.
LEV 5:2 That soul which ever should touch any thing unclean, or decaying flesh, or that which is unclean taken by wild beasts, or of the decaying flesh of abominations of the unclean, or of the decaying flesh of unclean cattle,
LEV 5:3 or should touch of the uncleanness of a man, of any of his uncleanness of what ever touching he should be defiled, and he be unaware of it, but after this he should know that he should have trespassed;
LEV 5:4 or the soul, in what ever he should swear by an oath, drawing apart his lips to do evil or to do well, according to all as much as the man should draw apart according to an oath, and should be unaware of it; and this one should later know, and should have sined any one of these things -
LEV 5:5 then he shall declare openly the sin for which he has sinned by it.
LEV 5:6 And he shall bring, for which he trespassed against the LORD for the sin of which he sinned, a female from the sheep, a ewe-lamb or a yearling of the goats for a sin offering. And the priest shall atone for him for the sin of which he sinned, and the sin shall be forgiven him.
LEV 5:7 And if his hand is not strong to be fit for bringing the sheep, he shall bring for his sin offering, of which he sinned, two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons to the LORD; one for a sin offering, and one for a whole burnt offering.
LEV 5:8 And he shall bring them to the priest; and the priest shall bring the one for the prior sin offering; and the priest shall pluck off its head from the neck, and shall not divide it.
LEV 5:9 And he shall sprinkle from the blood of the one for the sin offering upon the wall of the altar; but the rest of the blood he shall drop upon the base of the altar - for it is a sin offering.
LEV 5:10 And the second one he shall offer for a whole offering as is fit. And the priest shall atone for him for his sin of which he sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.
LEV 5:11 And if his hand should not find a pair of turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, then he shall bring his gift for which he sinned the tenth of the ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. He shall not pour upon it olive oil, nor place upon it frankincense; for it is an offering on account of sin.
LEV 5:12 And he shall bring it to the priest. And the priest grabbing from it a full handful of his, shall place the memorial portion of it upon the altar, upon the whole burnt offerings to the LORD - it is a sin offering.
LEV 5:13 And the priest shall atone for him for his sin of which he sinned against one of these things, and it shall be forgiven him. And the remaining will be for the priest as a sacrifice of the fine flour.
LEV 5:14 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 5:15 The soul who ever should be unaware himself with forgetfulness, and should sin unintentionally of the holy things of the LORD; then he shall bring for his trespass offering to the LORD an unblemished ram of the flocks, of the value of silver of shekels, in the shekel in the holy place, for of what he trespassed.
LEV 5:16 And what ever he sinned, he shall pay from the holy things, and the fifth part he shall add to it, and shall give it to the priest. And the priest shall atone for him by the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.
LEV 5:17 And the soul who ever should sin, and should commit one trespass from all of the commandments of the LORD which he must not do; and does not know, and should trespass, and should take the guilt for his sin;
LEV 5:18 then he shall bring an unblemished ram from out of the flocks, the value of silver for the trespass offering to the priest. And the priest shall atone for him for his ignorance of which he was ignorant of, and he did not know. And it will be forgiven him,
LEV 5:19 for he trespassed a trespass - it is a trespass offering before the LORD.
LEV 6:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 6:2 The soul which ever should sin, and by ignoring should ignore the commandments of the LORD, and should lie concerning the neighbor in a matter of trust, or concerning fellowship, or concerning seizure, or he wronged the neighbor in any way,
LEV 6:3 or he found something lost and should lie concerning it, and should swear by an oath unjustly concerning any one of all which ever a man should do so as to sin by these.
LEV 6:4 Then it shall be when ever he should sin, and trespass, that he should give back the seized thing which he seized by force, or the offence which he wronged, or the trust which was placed in him, or the loss which he found of every thing of which he swore by an oath concerning it unjustly; and he shall pay it, the total sum, and his fifth part shall be added upon it - whatever is his he shall give back in the day he should be reproved.
LEV 6:5 And he shall bring for his trespass offering to the LORD, an unblemished ram from the flocks, the value for what he trespassed.
LEV 6:6 And the priest shall atone for him before the LORD. And it shall be forgiven to him for one of all which he did, and trespassed by it.
LEV 6:7 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 6:8 Give charge to Aaron and to his sons, saying!
LEV 6:9 This is the law of the bringing the whole burnt offering. This is the bringing the whole burnt offering upon its burning upon the altar the entire night until morning; and the fire of the altar shall burn upon it, and shall not be extinguished.
LEV 6:10 And the priest shall put on a flaxen linen inner garment, and shall put on flaxen linen pants on his body. And he shall remove the incinerated remains, which ever the fire should have consumed of the whole burnt offering of the altar. And he shall place it next to the altar.
LEV 6:11 And he shall take off his apparel, and shall put on other apparel. And he shall bring forth the incinerated remains outside the camp unto a clean place.
LEV 6:12 And the fire upon the altar shall be kept burning upon it; it shall not be extinguished. And the priest shall burn wood upon it morning by morning, and shall pile upon it the whole burnt offering. And he shall place upon it the fat of the deliverance offering.
LEV 6:13 And fire shall always burn upon the altar; it shall not be be extinguished.
LEV 6:14 This is the law of the sacrifice offering which the sons of Aaron shall bring it before the LORD, before the altar.
LEV 6:15 And he shall remove from it by the handful of the fine flour of the sacrifice offering, with its olive oil, and with all its frankincense being upon the sacrifice, and shall offer up upon the altar a yield offering scent of pleasant aroma, a memorial of it to the LORD.
LEV 6:16 And the remainder of it Aaron shall eat and his sons. It shall be eaten unleavened in a holy place; in the courtyard of the tent of the testimony they shall eat it.
LEV 6:17 It shall not be baked being leavened. I have given it as a portion to them of the yield offerings of the LORD; it is a holy of holies, as the one for the sin offering, and as the one for the trespass offering.
LEV 6:18 Every male of the priests shall eat it - an eternal law unto your generations of the yield offerings of the LORD. All who ever should touch them shall be sanctified.
LEV 6:19 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 6:20 This is the gift offering of Aaron and his sons, which they shall bring to the LORD in the day which ever you shall anoint him - the tenth of the ephah of fine flour for a sacrifice offering always, half of it in the morning, and half of it at dusk.
LEV 6:21 You shall prepare it upon a frying pan with olive oil. He shall bring it being mixed up, kneaded, as a sacrifice of pieces; he shall bring a sacrifice for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 6:22 And the anointed priest in place of him from his sons will prepare it. It is an eternal law to the LORD - all shall be completed.
LEV 6:23 And every sacrifice offering of a priest shall be wholly burnt; and it shall not be eaten.
LEV 6:24 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 6:25 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering. In the place where they slay the whole burnt offerings, they shall slay also the one for the sin offering before the LORD - it is a holy of holies.
LEV 6:26 The priest offering it shall eat it in a holy place; he shall eat it in the courtyard of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 6:27 Every one touching of its meats shall be sanctified. And to whom ever should be sprinkled upon of its blood, upon the cloak - the one who should be sprinkled upon by it shall be washed in a holy place.
LEV 6:28 And an earthenware item of what ever should have been boiled in it shall be broken. And if it should have been boiled in an item of brass, he shall scour it, and wash it out in water.
LEV 6:29 Every male among the priests shall eat it; it is a holy of holies to the LORD.
LEV 6:30 And all the meats concerning the sin offering, what ever might be carried in of their blood into the tent of the testimony, to atone in the holy place, shall not be eaten; it shall be incinerated in fire.
LEV 7:1 And this is the law of the ram for the trespass offering - it is a holy of holies.
LEV 7:2 In the place of which they slay the whole burnt offering, they shall slay the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD. And he shall pour the blood upon the base of the altar round about.
LEV 7:3 And all the fat of it he shall offer of it, and the loin, and the fat covering up the entrails, and all the fat upon the entrails.
LEV 7:4 And the two kidneys, and the fat upon them upon the thighs, and the lobe upon the liver, with the kidneys - he shall remove them.
LEV 7:5 And the priest shall offer them upon the altar of the yield offering to the LORD - it is for a trespass offering.
LEV 7:6 Every male of the priests shall eat them; in the holy place they shall eat - it is a holy of holies.
LEV 7:7 As the one concerning the sin offering, so also the one of the trespass offering - there is one law for them. The priest, whoever shall atone for it, it shall be to him.
LEV 7:8 And the priest bringing the whole burnt offering of a man - the skin of the whole burnt offering which he offers will be his.
LEV 7:9 And every sacrifice offering which should be prepared in the oven, and all which shall be prepared upon a grate or upon a frying pan, of the priest offering it, it shall be his.
LEV 7:10 And every sacrifice offering being prepared in olive oil, and not being prepared with olive oil - all of it shall be for the sons of Aaron, to each equally.
LEV 7:11 This is the law of the sacrifice of deliverance, which they shall bring to the LORD.
LEV 7:12 If indeed for praise a man should offer it, then he shall bring upon the sacrifice of praise unleavened breads made of fine flour, being prepared in olive oil, and unleavened pancakes being smeared all over with olive oil, and fine flour being mixed with olive oil.
LEV 7:13 With leavened breads he shall offer his gift with a sacrifice of praise of his deliverance offering.
LEV 7:14 And he shall bring from his offering one portion from all of his gift offerings, a cut-away portion to the LORD; to the priest pouring on the blood of the deliverance offering - it will be to him.
LEV 7:15 And the meats of the sacrifice of praise of deliverance - it will be his. And in the day it is presented, it shall be eaten. They shall not leave behind of it into the morning.
LEV 7:16 And if it should be a vow, he should sacrifice the voluntary offering of his gift offering - in which ever day he should bring his sacrifice it shall be eaten, and in the next morning.
LEV 7:17 And the thing being left from the meats of the sacrifice until the third day shall be incinerated in fire.
LEV 7:18 And if in eating he should eat from the meats of the third day, it shall not be accepted to the one offering it; it shall not be imputed to him - it is a defilement, and the soul who should eat of it shall bear the sin.
LEV 7:19 And meats, whatever as much as touch any unclean thing, shall not be eaten; it shall be incinerated in fire. Every one clean shall eat clean meats.
LEV 7:20 And the soul which ever should eat from the meats of the sacrifice of the deliverance, which is to the LORD, then his uncleanness is upon him, that soul shall be destroyed from its people.
LEV 7:21 And the soul which ever should touch any thing unclean, or from an uncleanness of man, or of the four-footed creatures of the unclean, or any abomination of an unclean thing, and should eat from the meats of the sacrifice of the peace offerings, which is for the LORD, that soul shall be destroyed from its people.
LEV 7:22 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 7:23 Speak to the sons of Israel, saying! All fat of oxen, and sheep, and goats, you shall not eat.
LEV 7:24 And the fat of decaying flesh, and that taken by wild beasts, shall be appointed for all work things, but for food it shall not be eaten.
LEV 7:25 Every one eating fat off the cattle, of which he will bring from them as a yield offering to the LORD, that soul shall be destroyed from its people.
LEV 7:26 You shall not eat any blood in all of your house, of either the cattle and of the birds.
LEV 7:27 Every soul which ever should eat blood, that soul shall be destroyed from its people.
LEV 7:28 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 7:29 And to the sons of Israel you shall speak, saying, The one offering a sacrifice of his peace offerings to the LORD shall bring his gift to the LORD from the sacrifice of his deliverance offering.
LEV 7:30 His own hands shall bring the yield offerings to the LORD - the fat upon the breast, and the lobe upon the liver. He shall bring them so as to place a gift before the LORD.
LEV 7:31 And the priest shall offer the fat upon the altar. And the breast shall be Aaron's and to his sons.
LEV 7:32 And the right shoulder you shall give as a cut-away portion to the priest from the sacrifices of your deliverance offering.
LEV 7:33 The one offering the blood of the deliverance offering, and the fat, from the sons of Aaron - to him will be the right shoulder for a portion.
LEV 7:34 For the breast of the increase offering and the shoulder of the cut-away portion I have taken from the sons of Israel from the sacrifices of your deliverance offering, and I gave them to Aaron the priest and to his sons - an eternal law for the sons of Israel.
LEV 7:35 This is the anointing of Aaron, and the anointing of his sons, from the yield offerings of the LORD, in which day he brought them to officiate as priest to the LORD;
LEV 7:36 in so far as the LORD gave charge to give to them in which day he anointed them from the sons of Israel - an eternal law unto their generations.
LEV 7:37 This is the law of the whole burnt offerings, and sacrifice offering, and for a sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the consecration offering, and of the sacrifice of the of deliverance offering,
LEV 7:38 in which manner the LORD gave charge to Moses on mount Sinai, in which day he gave charge to the sons of Israel to bring their gift offerings before the LORD in the wilderness of Sinai.
LEV 8:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 8:2 Take Aaron and his sons, and the apparels, and the olive oil for the anointing, and the calf for the sin offering, and the two rams, and the bin of the unleavened breads!
LEV 8:3 And let all the congregation hold an assembly at the door of the tent of the testimony!
LEV 8:4 And Moses did in which manner the LORD gave orders to him. And he held an assembly of the congregation at the door of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 8:5 And Moses said to the congregation, This is the word which the LORD gave charge to do.
LEV 8:6 And Moses led forward Aaron, and his sons, and bathed them in water.
LEV 8:7 And he put on him the inner garment, and tied the belt around him, and put on him the undergarment, and placed upon him the shoulder-piece, and tied it together on him, according to the making of the shoulder-piece, and fastened it on him.
LEV 8:8 And he placed upon him the oracle; and he placed upon the oracle the Manifestation and the Truth.
LEV 8:9 And he placed the mitre upon his head. And he placed the golden panel upon the mitre down in front of him, for the holy consecrating; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
LEV 8:10 And Moses took from the oil of the anointing,
LEV 8:11 and he sprinkled from it upon the altar seven times, and anointed the altar, and sanctified it, and all its utensils, and the bathing tub, and its base. And he sanctified them, and he anointed the tent, and all its items, and he sanctified it.
LEV 8:12 And Moses poured of the oil of the anointing upon the head of Aaron, and anointed him, and sanctified him.
LEV 8:13 And Moses led forward the sons of Aaron, and put on them inner garments, and tied around them belts, and put on them turbans; just as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
LEV 8:14 And Moses brought the calf for the sin offering. And Aaron and his sons placed their hands upon the head of the calf of the sin offering.
LEV 8:15 And he slew it. And Moses took of the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about with his finger, and cleansed the altar. And the blood he poured out upon the base of the altar, and sanctified it, to atone upon it.
LEV 8:16 And Moses took all the fat upon the entrails, and the lobe upon the liver, and both of the kidneys, and the fat upon them; and Moses offered them upon the altar.
LEV 8:17 And the calf and its hide, and its meats, and its dung, he incinerated in fire outside the camp; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
LEV 8:18 And Moses brought the ram for a whole burnt offering. And Aaron and his sons placed their hands upon the head of the ram.
LEV 8:19 And Moses slew the ram. And Moses poured the blood upon the altar round about.
LEV 8:20 And he dressed the ram according to its limbs. And Moses offered up the head, and the limbs, and the fat;
LEV 8:21 and the belly and the feet he washed in water. And Moses offered up all the ram upon the altar. It is a whole burnt offering for a scent of pleasant aroma; it is a yield offering to the LORD; just as the LORD gave charge to Moses.
LEV 8:22 And Moses brought the second ram, the ram of consecration offering. And Aaron and his sons placed their hands upon the head of the ram.
LEV 8:23 And he slew it. And Moses took some of its blood, and he placed it upon the lobe of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the big toe of his right foot.
LEV 8:24 And Moses brought the sons of Aaron, and Moses put some of the blood upon the lobe of their right ear, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the big toe of their right foot. And Moses poured the blood upon the altar round about.
LEV 8:25 And he took the fat, and the loin, and the fat upon the belly, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, and the right shoulder.
LEV 8:26 And from the bin of the consecration offering being before the LORD, he took one unleavened bread, and one bread made of olive oil, and one pancake, and placed them upon the fat and upon the right shoulder.
LEV 8:27 And he put all these in the hands of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons. And he offered them as a cut-away portion before the LORD.
LEV 8:28 And Moses took from their hands, and offered them upon the altar, upon the whole burnt offering of the consecration offering; which is a scent of pleasant aroma - it is a yield offering to the LORD.
LEV 8:29 And Moses taking the breast, removed it for an increase offering before the LORD, from the ram of the consecration; and it became to Moses for a portion; as the LORD gave charge to Moses.
LEV 8:30 And Moses took of the oil of the anointing, and of the blood upon the altar, and sprinkled it upon Aaron, and upon his apparels, and upon his sons, and upon the apparels of his sons. And he sanctified Aaron and his apparels, and his sons, and the apparels of his sons with him.
LEV 8:31 And Moses said to Aaron and his sons, Boil the meats by the gate of the tent of the testimony in the holy place! And there you shall eat them, and the breads in the bin of the consecration, in which manner it was ordered to me, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat them.
LEV 8:32 And the amount being left behind of the meats and the breads shall be incinerated in fire.
LEV 8:33 And from the door of the tent of the testimony you shall not come forth for seven days, until the days of fullness, the days of your consecration. For seven days he will perfect your hands,
LEV 8:34 just as he did in this day, in which the LORD gave charge to do, so as to atone for you.
LEV 8:35 And upon the door of the tent of the testimony you shall sit seven days - day and night; and you shall guard the injunctions of the LORD, and you shall not die. For thus the LORD gave charge to me.
LEV 8:36 And Aaron and his sons observed all the words which the LORD gave orders by the hand of Moses.
LEV 9:1 And it came to pass on the eighth day, Moses called Aaron, and his sons, and the council of elders of Israel.
LEV 9:2 And Moses said to Aaron, Take to yourself a young calf from the oxen for a sin offering, and a ram for a whole burnt offering, unblemished, and offer them before the LORD!
LEV 9:3 And to the council of elders of Israel you shall speak, saying, Take a young he-goat from out of the goats, one for a sin offering, and a young calf, and a lamb of a year old for a whole offering, unblemished;
LEV 9:4 and a calf, and a ram for a sacrifice of deliverance offering before the LORD, and fine flour being mixed up with olive oil! For today the LORD will appear among you.
LEV 9:5 And they took as Moses gave charge before the tent of the testimony. And all the congregation came forward and stood before the LORD.
LEV 9:6 And Moses said, This is the saying which the LORD gave orders - you do it! and the glory of the LORD will appear among you.
LEV 9:7 And Moses said to Aaron, Come forward to the altar, and offer the thing for your sin offering, and your whole burnt offering, and atone for yourself, and for your house! And offer the gift offering of the people, and atone for them; just as the LORD gave charge to Moses!
LEV 9:8 And Aaron came forward to the altar, and slew the calf for his sin offering.
LEV 9:9 And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him. And he dipped his finger into the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar. And the blood he poured upon the base of the altar.
LEV 9:10 And the fat, and the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver for the sin offering, he offered upon the altar; in which manner the LORD gave charge to Moses.
LEV 9:11 And the meats and the hide he incinerated by fire outside the camp.
LEV 9:12 And he slew the whole burnt offering. And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him, and he poured upon the altar round about.
LEV 9:13 And the whole burnt offering - they brought it by limbs, and head. And he placed them upon the altar.
LEV 9:14 And he washed the belly and the feet in water. And they placed the whole burnt offering upon the altar.
LEV 9:15 And they brought the gift offering of the people. And he took the young he-goat for the sin offering of the people, and slew it, and cleansed it, as also the first.
LEV 9:16 And he brought the whole burnt offering, and offered it as fitting.
LEV 9:17 And he brought the sacrifice offering, and filled the hand of it, and placed it upon the altar, separate from the early morning whole burnt offering.
LEV 9:18 And he slew the calf and the ram of the sacrifice of the deliverance offering of the people. And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him. And he poured it upon the altar round about,
LEV 9:19 and the fat from the calf, and from the loin of the ram, and the fat covering up the belly, and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, and the lobe upon the liver.
LEV 9:20 And he placed the fat upon the breasts, and offered the fat upon the altar.
LEV 9:21 And the breast and the right shoulder Aaron removed as a cut-away portion before the LORD; in which manner he gave orders to Moses.
LEV 9:22 And Aaron, lifting the hands upon the people, blessed them. And he came down after offering the thing for the sin offering, and the things of whole burnt offerings, and the things of the deliverance offering.
LEV 9:23 And Moses and Aaron entered into the tent of the testimony. And coming forth, they blessed the people. And the glory of the LORD appeared to all the people.
LEV 9:24 And fire came forth from the LORD, and devoured the things upon the altar, both the whole burnt offerings and the fat. And all the people saw, and were amazed. And they fell upon their face.
LEV 10:1 And the two sons of Aaron Nadab and Abihu each taking his censer, placed fire upon them, and put incense upon them, and offered an alien fire before the LORD, which the LORD assigned not to them.
LEV 10:2 And came forth fire from the LORD, and it devoured them, and they died before the LORD.
LEV 10:3 And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the LORD spoke, saying, Among the ones approaching to me I will be sanctified, and in all the congregation I will be glorified. And Aaron was vexed.
LEV 10:4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, sons of Uzziel brother of the father of Aaron, and said to them, Come forward and lift your brothers from before the holies outside of the camp.
LEV 10:5 And they came forward, and lifted them by their garments outside of the camp; in which manner Moses said.
LEV 10:6 And Moses said to Aaron, and Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons being left behind, Your heads shall not be without a turban, and your cloaks you shall not tear; that you should not die, and that rage be upon all the congregation. But your brothers, all the house of Israel, shall weep for the combustion which the LORD set on fire.
LEV 10:7 And from the door of the tent of the testimony you shall not go forth, that you should not die. For the oil of the anointing of the LORD is upon you. And they did according to the saying of Moses.
LEV 10:8 And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying,
LEV 10:9 Wine and liquor you are not to drink, you and your sons with you, when ever you should enter into the tent of the testimony, or in your going to the altar, that no way you should die - it is an eternal law unto your generations;
LEV 10:10 to distinguish between the holy and the profane, and between the unclean and the clean;
LEV 10:11 and to instruct the sons of Israel all together the laws which the LORD spoke to them through the hand of Moses.
LEV 10:12 And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of his being left, You take the sacrifice offering being left from the yield offerings of the LORD, and eat unleavened breads by the altar - for it is a holy of holies!
LEV 10:13 And you shall eat it in the holy place, for it is a law to you, and a law to your sons - this from the yield offerings of the LORD. For thus it has been given charge to me.
LEV 10:14 And the breast of the separation offering, and the shoulder of the cut-away portion you shall eat in the holy place - you, and your sons, and your house with you as a law to you, and a law to your sons it was given of the sacrifices of the deliverance offerings of the sons of Israel.
LEV 10:15 The shoulder of the cut-away portion and the breast of the separation offering upon the yield offerings of the fats, they shall bring as a separation offering to separate before the LORD. And it will be to you, and to your sons, and to your daughters with you, an eternal law; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
LEV 10:16 And seeking the young he-goat for the sin offering - Moses sought after it. But thus it had been set on fire. And Moses was enraged at Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron being left, saying,
LEV 10:17 Why did you not eat the thing for the sin offering in the holy place, for because it is a holy of holies? This he gave to you to eat, that you should remove the sin of the congregation, and should atone for them before the LORD.
LEV 10:18 For there was not brought in from the blood of it into the holy place. You shall eat it in person inside in the holy place, in which manner it was ordered to me.
LEV 10:19 And Aaron spoke to Moses, saying, If today they have brought the things for their sin offering, and the things of their whole burnt offerings before the LORD; and such things have come to pass to me. Then if I shall eat the thing for the sin offering today, shall it not it be pleasing to the LORD?
LEV 10:20 And Moses heard it, and it pleased him.
LEV 11:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
LEV 11:2 Speak to the sons of Israel, saying! These are the animals which you shall eat from out of all of the animals upon the earth.
LEV 11:3 Every animal being cloven hoof, and clovenfooted, clawing with two claws, and taken up chewing the cud among the animals, these you shall eat.
LEV 11:4 Except from these you shall not eat - of the ones taking up chewing the cud, and of the ones not being cloven of the hoofs, and clawing clovenfooted - the camel, for this one takes up chewing the cud, and the hoof is not cloven; this one is unclean to you.
LEV 11:5 And the hare, for this one takes up chewing the cud, and its hoof is not cloven; this one is unclean to you.
LEV 11:6 And the hyrax, for this one does not take up chewing the cud, and the hoof is not cloven; this one is unclean to you.
LEV 11:7 And the pig, for this one is cloven of hoof, and claws with the claw of the hoof, but this one takes not up chewing the cud; this one is unclean to you.
LEV 11:8 Of their meats you shall not eat, and of the meats of their decaying flesh you shall not touch; these are unclean to you.
LEV 11:9 And these you shall eat out of all of the ones in the waters - all as many as there are fins to them and scales, being in the waters, and in the seas, and in the rushing streams - these you shall eat.
LEV 11:10 And all as many as there are not fins to them, nor scales, being in the waters, and in the seas, and in the rushing streams, of all which bubble the waters, and from every soul living in the water, it is an abomination.
LEV 11:11 And they shall be abominations to you; you shall not eat of their meats, and their decaying flesh you shall abhor.
LEV 11:12 And all as many as there are not fins to them, nor scales of the ones in the waters, this is an abomination to you.
LEV 11:13 And these you shall abhor from the winged creatures, and shall not be eaten, it is an abomination - the eagle, and the griffin, and the osprey,
LEV 11:14 and the vulture, and kite, and the ones likened to it; and all the crows, and the ones likened to it;
LEV 11:15 and the ostrich, and owl, and gull, and the ones likened to it;
LEV 11:16 and hawk, and the ones likened to it;
LEV 11:17 and long-eared owl, and cormorant, and ibis,
LEV 11:18 and the purple-legged stork, and pelican, and swan,
LEV 11:19 and heron, and curlew, and the ones likened to it; and hoopoe, and bat,
LEV 11:20 and all the crawling things of the winged creatures which go upon fours, is an abomination to you.
LEV 11:21 But these you shall eat from the crawling things of the winged creatures which go upon fours. which have legs upward from their feet, to spring up with them upon the earth.
LEV 11:22 And you shall eat these from them - the grasshopper, and the ones likened to it; and the hopping locust, and the ones likened to it; and crawling locust, and the ones likened to it; and the locust, and the ones likened to it.
LEV 11:23 And every crawling thing of the winged creatures which are of four feet, is an abomination to you.
LEV 11:24 And by these you shall be defiled - every one touching their decaying flesh will be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:25 And every one lifting their decaying flesh shall wash their garments, and shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:26 And among all the animals which are cloven hoof, and with clovenfooted claws, and of chewing the cud does not chew the cud - they shall be unclean to you. Every one touching their decaying flesh will be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:27 And every one which goes upon his hands among all the wild beasts, which go upon fours, it is unclean to you. Every one touching of their decaying flesh will be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:28 And the one lifting of their decaying flesh shall wash his garments, and will be unclean until evening - these shall be unclean to you.
LEV 11:29 And these are unclean to you of the crawling things of the ones crawling upon the earth - the weasel, and the mouse, and the dry land crocodile, and the ones likened to it;
LEV 11:30 the field-mouse, and chameleon, and newt, and lizard, and mole -
LEV 11:31 these are unclean to you from all of the crawling things crawling upon the earth - every one touching their decaying flesh will be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:32 And all upon what ever should fall upon it, upon their ones having died, shall be unclean from every wooden item, or garment, or skin, or a sackcloth. Every item in which ever work should be done by it shall be dipped into water, and it shall be unclean until evening - and then it will be clean.
LEV 11:33 And every earthenware item into what ever should fall in from them inside, as much as should be inside, it shall be unclean, and it shall be broken.
LEV 11:34 And every food eaten, into what ever water from such a container should come upon it, will be unclean to you. And every beverage which is drunk in any such receptacle, it shall be unclean.
LEV 11:35 And all upon what ever should fall from their decaying flesh upon it, it shall be unclean - ovens, and pots with feet, shall be demolished; these are unclean, and they shall be unclean to you.
LEV 11:36 Except springs of waters, or a well, or a gathering of water, it will be clean; but the one touching their decaying flesh, it shall be unclean.
LEV 11:37 And if anything should fall from their decaying flesh upon any seed fit for sowing, which shall be sown, it shall be clean.
LEV 11:38 But if water should be poured upon any seed, and their decaying flesh should fall upon it, it is unclean to you.
LEV 11:39 And if one should die of the animals, which this one is allowed for you to eat, the one touching of their decaying flesh will be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:40 And the one eating from their decaying flesh shall wash his garments, and shall be unclean until evening. And the one lifting of their decaying flesh shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 11:41 And every crawling thing which crawls upon the earth - this is an abomination to you, you shall not eat it.
LEV 11:42 And all going upon the belly, and all going upon fours always, which is numerous in feet among all the crawling things crawling upon the earth - you shall not eat it, for it is an abomination to you.
LEV 11:43 And no way shall you abhor your souls among all the crawling things crawling upon the earth. And you shall not be defiled by these, and you shall not be unclean by these.
LEV 11:44 For I am the LORD your God. And you shall be sanctified, and you shall be holy; for I the LORD your God am holy. And you shall not defile your souls among all the crawling things moving upon the earth.
LEV 11:45 For I am the LORD leading you from out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. And you shall be holy, for I the LORD am holy.
LEV 11:46 This is the law for the animals, and the winged creatures, and all life moving in the water, and all life crawling upon the earth;
LEV 11:47 to distinguish between the unclean and between the clean; and between the ones bringing forth alive the ones being eaten, and between the ones bringing forth alive the ones not being eaten.
LEV 12:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 12:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, saying, A woman whoever should conceive, and should give birth to a male; she shall be unclean seven days. According to the days of the separation of her menstruation she shall be unclean.
LEV 12:3 And in the eighth day she shall circumcise the flesh of his foreskin.
LEV 12:4 And thirty and three days she shall sit in the blood of her cleansing. She shall not touch anything holy, and she shall not enter into the sanctuary, until whenever the days of her cleansing should have been fulfilled.
LEV 12:5 But if she should give birth to a female, then she will be unclean twice seven days, according to her menstruation; and sixty days and six she shall be seated in her unclean blood.
LEV 12:6 And whenever the days of her cleansing should be fulfilled, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring a lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering, and a young pigeon, or turtle-dove for a sin offering, to the door of the tent of the testimony, to the priest.
LEV 12:7 And she shall bring it before the LORD, and the priest shall atone for her, and shall cleanse her from the spring of her blood. This is the law for the giving birth to a male or female.
LEV 12:8 But if her hand does not find enough for a lamb, then she shall take two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons - one for a whole burnt offering, and one for a sin offering; and the priest shall atone for her, and she shall be cleansed.
LEV 13:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
LEV 13:2 If any man should have in the skin of his flesh a discoloration radiant spot, and an infection of leprosy takes place in the skin of his flesh, he shall be led to Aaron the priest, or one of his sons of the priests.
LEV 13:3 And the priest shall look at the infection in the skin of his flesh. And if a hair in the infection should turn white, and the appearance of the infection be deep under the skin of his flesh, it is an infection of leprosy - and the priest shall look, and shall declare him defiled.
LEV 13:4 And if the radiant spot should be white in the skin of his flesh, and its appearance should not be deep below the skin, and its hair did not turn white, but it is faint, then the priest shall separate the infection for seven days.
LEV 13:5 And the priest shall look at the infection on the seventh day. And behold, if the infection abides before him, and if the infection did not degenerate in the skin, then the priest shall separate him seven days the second time.
LEV 13:6 And the priest shall look at him on the seventh day the second time. And behold, if the infection is faint, and the infection did not degenerate in the skin, then the priest will cleanse him; for it is a spot. And washing his garments, he will be clean.
LEV 13:7 But if in turning, the spot degenerates in the skin, after the priest looking at him to cleanse him, then he shall appear the second time to the priest.
LEV 13:8 And the priest shall look at him, and behold, if the spot degenerated in the skin, then the priest shall declare him defiled - it is leprosy.
LEV 13:9 And if an infection of leprosy happens in a man, then he shall come to the priest.
LEV 13:10 And the priest shall look. And behold, if it is a white discoloration in the skin, and if it turned the hair white, and some of the healthy flesh be living in the discoloration -
LEV 13:11 it is a leprosy becoming old in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall declare him defiled, and shall separate him; for he is unclean.
LEV 13:12 But if blooming leprosy shall break out in the skin, and the leprosy shall cover all the skin with the infection, from head unto his feet, according to the whole vision of the priest;
LEV 13:13 then the priest shall look, and behold, if the leprosy covers all the skin of his flesh, then he shall cleanse the infection, for all turned white - he is clean.
LEV 13:14 And in what ever day living flesh should appear to him, he shall be declared defiled.
LEV 13:15 And the priest shall look at the healthy flesh, and the healthy flesh shall prove him defiled; for it is unclean - it is leprosy.
LEV 13:16 But if the healthy flesh should restore and turn white, then he shall come to the priest;
LEV 13:17 and the priest shall see him. And behold, if the infection turned to the white, then the priest shall declare him cleansed by the infection - he is clean.
LEV 13:18 And if flesh should have a lesion in its skin, and should heal,
LEV 13:19 and there should become in the place of the lesion a white discoloration, or radiant spot being whitened, or being reddish, and it should be looked at by the priest;
LEV 13:20 then the priest shall look. And behold, if the appearance be deeper under the skin, and its hair turns into white; then the priest shall declare him defiled; for it is leprosy - it broke out in the lesion.
LEV 13:21 But if the priest should look at him, and behold, there is not a white hair on it, and it should not be deep under the skin of the flesh, and it should be faint; then the priest shall separate him seven days.
LEV 13:22 But if in a diffusion it should have diffused in the skin, then the priest shall declare him defiled - it is an infection of leprosy; it broke out in the lesion.
LEV 13:23 And if in its place the radiance should abide, and should not diffuse, it is a discoloration of the lesion; and the priest shall cleanse him.
LEV 13:24 And if flesh should become a fiery inflammation in his skin, and there should be in his skin the healing of the inflammation, shining forth radiant white, becoming somewhat reddish, or very white;
LEV 13:25 then the priest shall look at him. And behold, if the hair is turned white in the shining forth, and the appearance of it is deep under the skin; it is leprosy - it broke out in the inflammation; and the priest shall declare him defiled - it is an infection of leprosy.
LEV 13:26 But if the priest should look at him, and behold, there is not in the shining forth a white hair, and it should not be deep under the skin, but it is faint; then the priest shall separate him seven days.
LEV 13:27 And the priest shall look at him in the seventh day. But if the diffusion should diffuse in the skin, then the priest shall declare him defiled - it is an infection of leprosy; it broke out in the lesion.
LEV 13:28 But if the shining forth should stay in its place, and should not be diffused in the skin, but it should be faint; it is a discoloration of an inflammation, and the priest should declare him cleansed - for it is an effect of an inflammation.
LEV 13:29 And a man or a woman in whom ever has in themselves an infection of leprosy in the head or in the beard;
LEV 13:30 then the priest shall look at the infection. And behold, if its appearance be imbedded under the skin, and in it a yellowish thin hair; then the priest shall declare him defiled - it is an outbreak; it is a leprosy of the head or a leprosy of the beard.
LEV 13:31 And if the priest should look at the infection of the outbreak, and behold, the appearance is not imbedded under the skin, and the hair is not yellowish in it, then the priest shall separate the infection of the outbreak seven days.
LEV 13:32 And the priest shall look at the infection on the seventh day. And behold, if the outbreak should not be diffused, and there is not a yellowish hair in it, and the appearance of the outbreak is not hollow under the skin;
LEV 13:33 then the skin shall be shaven, but the outbreak shall not be shaven; and the priest shall separate the outbreak seven days for the second time.
LEV 13:34 And the priest shall look at the outbreak on the seventh day; and behold, if the outbreak should not be diffused in the skin after the shaving of it, and the appearance of the outbreak is not hollow under the skin; then the priest shall cleanse him; and washing his garments, he will be clean.
LEV 13:35 But if the diffusion should be diffused in the outbreak in the skin after cleansing it;
LEV 13:36 then the priest shall look at him. And behold, if the outbreak should be diffused in the skin, the priest shall not examine concerning the hair being yellowish - he is unclean.
LEV 13:37 But if before him the outbreak should abide in its place \Gr be stabilized., and a black hair should rise in it; the outbreak is healed - he is clean; and the priest shall declare him cleansed.
LEV 13:38 And a man or woman in whom ever should have in the skin of his flesh shinings shining forth, being white;
LEV 13:39 then the priest shall look. And behold, in the skin of his flesh shinings shining forth being white; it is a psoriasis, it broke out in the skin; he is clean.
LEV 13:40 And if any one should be loose of hair - his head is bald; he is clean.
LEV 13:41 But if his head is loose of hair by his face, he is forehead bald; he is clean.
LEV 13:42 But if there becomes in his baldness, or in his being forehead bald a white infection or reddening; it is leprosy blossoming in his baldness, or in his forehead baldness.
LEV 13:43 And the priest shall look at it. And behold, if the appearance of the infection be white or reddish in his baldness, or in his being forehead bald, as the form of leprosy in the skin of his flesh -
LEV 13:44 he is a leprous man, he is unclean. In defilement the priest shall declare him defiled - in his head is his infection.
LEV 13:45 And the leper in whom is the infection, his garments shall be disabled, and his head uncovered, and concerning his mouth - let him put something around it! And he shall call himself Unclean.
LEV 13:46 All the days, as many as the infection might be upon him being unclean; he shall be unclean. Being separated he shall sit down outside of his camp - it will be to him a place for pastime.
LEV 13:47 And a garment which ever should have in it an infection of leprosy in a woolen garment, or in a garment made of hemp,
LEV 13:48 or in the warp, or in the woof, or in the flaxen linens, or in the woolen threads, or in a skin, or in any worked skin;
LEV 13:49 and the infection should become greenish or reddish in the skin, or in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in any item in worked skin - it is an infection of leprosy, and he shall show it to the priest.
LEV 13:50 And the priest shall look at the infection; and the priest shall separate the infection seven days.
LEV 13:51 And he shall look at the infection on the seventh day. But if the infection should diffuse in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in the skin, according to all as much as might be made with the skins in the work - it is permanent leprosy; it is an unclean infection.
LEV 13:52 He shall incinerate the garment, or the warp, or the woof which is in the woolen garments, or in the flaxen linens, or in every item made of skin, in which ever there might be in it the infection - for it is a permanent leprosy; by fire it shall be incinerated.
LEV 13:53 But if the priest should look, and the infection should not be diffused in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in any item made of skin;
LEV 13:54 then the priest shall order, and one shall wash that upon which ever there might be an infection upon it; and the priest shall separate the infection seven days for the second time.
LEV 13:55 And the priest shall look after the washing the infection. And if thus the infection in no way should turn of its appearance, and the infection did not diffuse, it is unclean; in fire you shall incinerate it; it is fixed firm in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof.
LEV 13:56 And if the priest should look, and the infection should be faint after the washing it; then he shall rip it from the garment, or from the warp, or from the woof, or from the skin.
LEV 13:57 And if it should appear still in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in any item made of skin - it is leprosy breaking out; by fire you shall incinerate that which the infection is in.
LEV 13:58 And the garment, or the warp, or the woof, or any item made of skin which shall be washed, and the infection leaves from it, then it shall be washed the second time, and it shall be clean.
LEV 13:59 This is the law of an infection of leprosy of a garment of wool, or made of hemp, or warp, or woof, or any item made of skin, in the declaring it cleansed or defiled.
LEV 14:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 14:2 This is the law of the leper in whatever day he should have been cleansed, and shall be brought to the priest.
LEV 14:3 And the priest shall come forth outside the camp; and the priest shall look, and behold, if the infection has been healed of the leprosy from the leper;
LEV 14:4 then the priest shall assign, and they shall take for the one being cleansed two clean living small birds, and wood of cedar, and twined scarlet, and hyssop.
LEV 14:5 And the priest shall assign, and they shall slay the one small bird into an earthenware receptacle over living water.
LEV 14:6 And the small living bird - he shall take it, and the wood of cedar, and the spun scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them, and the small living bird into the blood of the small bird being slain over living water.
LEV 14:7 And he shall sprinkle it about upon the one being cleansed of the leprosy seven times, and he will be clean. And he shall send out the small living bird into the plain.
LEV 14:8 And the one being cleansed shall wash his garments, and he shall shave all his hair, and shall bathe in water, and shall be clean. And after these things he shall enter into the camp, and shall spend time outside of his house seven days.
LEV 14:9 And it will be on the seventh day, he shall shave all of his hair, the hair of his head, and the beard, and the brows - even all his hair he shall shave. And he shall wash his garments, and shall bathe his body in water, and he shall be clean.
LEV 14:10 And on the eighth day he shall take two lambs, unblemished, of a year old, and one sheep, unblemished of a year old, and three tenths of fine flour for a sacrifice offering, being mixed in olive oil, and one small cup of olive oil.
LEV 14:11 And the priest that cleanses shall stand the man for the cleansing, and these offerings before the LORD, at the door of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 14:12 And the priest shall take the one lamb, and bring it for the trespass offering, and the small cup of olive oil; and he shall separate them as a separation offering before the LORD.
LEV 14:13 And he shall slay the lamb in the place where they slay the whole burnt offerings, and the ones for a sin offering, in the holy place. For it is the one for a sin offering; as the one of the trespass offering is for the priest - it is a holy of holies.
LEV 14:14 And the priest shall take from the blood, of the trespass offering, and the priest shall place it upon the lobe of the ear of the one being cleansed - the right, and upon the thumb of his hand - the right, and upon the big toe of his foot - the right.
LEV 14:15 And the priest taking from the small cup of the olive oil, he shall pour upon the left hand of the priest.
LEV 14:16 And the priest shall dip his right finger from the olive oil being in his left hand. And he shall sprinkle from the olive oil with his finger seven times before the LORD.
LEV 14:17 And the left behind olive oil being in his hand the priest shall place upon the lobe of the right ear of the one being cleansed, and upon the thumb of his hand - the right, and upon the big toe of his foot - the right, upon the place of the blood of the trespass offering.
LEV 14:18 And the left over olive oil that is upon the hand of the priest, the priest shall place it upon the head of the one being cleansed, and the priest shall atone for him before the LORD.
LEV 14:19 And the priest shall offer the thing for the sin offering, and the priest shall atone for the one being cleansed of his sin; and after this the priest shall slay the whole burnt offering.
LEV 14:20 And the priest shall offer the whole burnt offering and the sacrifice offering upon the altar before the LORD - and the priest shall atone for him, and he shall be cleansed.
LEV 14:21 And if he should be in need, and his hand should not find what is needed - he shall take one lamb for what he trespassed for a cut-away portion, so as to atone for him, and a tenth of fine flour being mixed in olive oil for a sacrifice offering, and one small cup of olive oil,
LEV 14:22 and two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, as much as his hand found. And the one shall be for a sin offering, and the one for a whole burnt offering.
LEV 14:23 And he shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing to the priest, unto the door of the tent of the testimony, before the LORD.
LEV 14:24 And the priest taking the lamb of the trespass offering, and the small cup of the olive oil, and he shall place them for an increase offering before the LORD.
LEV 14:25 And he shall slay the lamb of the trespass offering. And the priest shall take from the blood of the trespass offering, and shall place it upon the lobe of the ear of the one being cleansed - the right, and upon the thumb of his hand - the right, and upon the big toe of his foot - the right.
LEV 14:26 And of the olive oil the priest shall pour upon his own hand - the left.
LEV 14:27 And the priest shall sprinkle with his finger - the right from the olive oil in his hand - the left, seven times before the LORD.
LEV 14:28 And the priest shall put of the olive oil being in his hand, upon the lobe of the ear of the one being cleansed - the right, and upon the thumb of his hand - the right, and upon the big toe of his foot - of the right, upon the place of the blood of the one of the trespass offering.
LEV 14:29 And the left over olive oil being in the hand of the priest he shall place upon the head of the one being cleansed, and the priest shall atone for him before the LORD.
LEV 14:30 And he shall offer one from the turtle-doves, or from the young ones of the pigeons, in so far as his hand found,
LEV 14:31 the one for a sin offering, and the one for a whole burnt offering with the sacrifice offering. And the priest shall atone for the one being cleansed before the LORD.
LEV 14:32 This is the law in whom is found the infection of the leprosy, and not finding means in his hand enough for his cleansing.
LEV 14:33 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
LEV 14:34 When ever you should enter into the land of the Canaanites, which I give to you for a possession, and I put an infection of leprosy in the houses of the land procured by you;
LEV 14:35 then one from the house shall come and shall announce to the priest, saying, Something as an infection has appeared to me in the house.
LEV 14:36 And the priest will assign to pack up the house before the priest enters to look at the infection, that in no way as much as might be in the house should become unclean. And after these things the priest shall enter to study the house.
LEV 14:37 And he shall look at the infection. And behold, if the infection is in the walls of the house, with a cavity being greenish or being reddish, and their appearance deeper in the walls,
LEV 14:38 and the priest coming forth from out of the house, at the door of the house, that the priest shall separate the house seven days.
LEV 14:39 And the priest shall come back again on the seventh day, and he shall look at the house. And behold, if the infection was diffused in the walls of the house,
LEV 14:40 then the priest shall assign, and they shall take out the stones in which is the infection, and shall cast them outside the city, into an unclean place.
LEV 14:41 And they shall scrape the house from inside round about, and shall pour out the plaster dust of the scraping outside the city into an unclean place.
LEV 14:42 And they shall take stones being scraped of others. And they shall substitute for the stones. And they shall take other plaster dust, and they shall plaster the house.
LEV 14:43 But if the infection should come again, and should rise up in the house after the taking away of the stones, and after the scraping the house, and after the plastering,
LEV 14:44 then the priest shall enter and shall look. If the infection in the house be dispersed, it is a permanent leprosy in the house - it is unclean.
LEV 14:45 And they shall demolish the house, and its wood, and its stones; and all the plaster dust of the house they shall bring forth outside the city unto an unclean place.
LEV 14:46 And the one entering into the house, all the days which it is being separated, will be unclean until evening.
LEV 14:47 And the one going to bed in the house shall wash his garments, and he will be unclean until evening. And the one eating in the house shall wash his garments.
LEV 14:48 And if coming, the priest should enter and look, and behold, the infection is not dispersed in the house after the plastering the house, that the priest shall declare the house cleansed, for the infection is healed.
LEV 14:49 And he shall take to purify the house, two small living birds, and wood of cedar, and twined scarlet, and hyssop.
LEV 14:50 And he shall slay the one small bird into an earthenware utensil over living water.
LEV 14:51 And he shall take the wood of cedar, and the twined scarlet, and the hyssop, and the living small bird, and shall dip them into the blood of the small bird having been slain over living water, and shall sprinkle about with them upon the house seven times.
LEV 14:52 And he shall purify the house with the blood of the small bird, and with the living water, and with the living small bird, and with the wood of cedar, and with the hyssop, and with the twined scarlet.
LEV 14:53 And he shall send out the living small bird outside the city into the plain, and shall atone for the house - and it will be clean.
LEV 14:54 This is the law for every infection of leprosy, and outbreak,
LEV 14:55 and the leprosy of a garment, and house,
LEV 14:56 and discoloration, and spot, and shining;
LEV 14:57 to describe the day unclean, and the day it shall be cleansed - this is the law of the leprosy.
LEV 15:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
LEV 15:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, A man, a man in whom ever should have a flow from out of his body, his flow is unclean.
LEV 15:3 And this is the law of his uncleanness. Flowing semen from out of his body, from out of the flow, in which his body concocted, his uncleanness is through this flow in him.
LEV 15:4 Every bed upon which ever he should go to bed upon it, the one having a seminal emission, is unclean; and every item upon which ever he should sit upon it, the one having a seminal emission, is unclean.
LEV 15:5 And a man who ever should touch his bed shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:6 And the one sitting down upon the item, upon what ever the one having a seminal emission should sit upon it, shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:7 And the one touching the flesh of the one having a seminal emission shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:8 And if the one having a seminal emission should salivate upon one that is clean; that person shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:9 And every saddle upon which the one having a seminal emission should mount upon it will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:10 And every one touching from all as much as might be underneath him will be unclean until evening. And the one lifting them shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:11 And of as many as should touch the one having a seminal emission, and his hands have not been washed in water, he shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and he will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:12 And an earthenware item of which ever the one having a seminal emission should have touched, shall be broken. And every wooden item shall be washed in water, and it will be clean.
LEV 15:13 And if the one having a seminal emission should be cleansed from his flow; then he shall count out to himself seven days for his cleansing, and shall wash his garments, and bathe his body in living water, and he will be clean.
LEV 15:14 And on the eighth day he shall take to himself two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and shall bring them before the LORD to the doors of the tent of the testimony, and shall give them to the priest.
LEV 15:15 And the priest shall offer them - one for a sin offering, and one for a whole burnt offering; and the priest shall atone for him before the LORD for his flow.
LEV 15:16 And a man who should come forth from his marriage-bed of issuing semen, even shall bathe in water all his body, and will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:17 And every garment, and every skin, upon which ever might be upon it of the marriage-bed of semen, that it shall be washed in water, and will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:18 And a wife, if a husband should have gone to bed with her in a marriage-bed of semen, even they shall bathe in water, and they will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:19 And a woman whoever might be flowing blood, when her flow shall be in her body, seven days she will be in her menstruation - every one touching her will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:20 And everything upon what ever she should lay herself upon it, in her menstruation, it will be unclean; and everything upon what ever she should sit herself upon it, it will be unclean.
LEV 15:21 And all who ever should touch her bed shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and will be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:22 And every one touching any item upon which ever she should sit upon it shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:23 And if being in her bed, or upon the item of which ever she should sit upon it, in its touching her, it shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:24 And if any one should bed down in her bed with her, and her uncleanness should be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days. And every bed upon which ever he should go to bed upon it shall be unclean.
LEV 15:25 And a woman, if she should flow a flow of blood many days, not in the time of her menstruation, and if also it should flow after her menstruation; all the days of the flow of her uncleanness shall be just as the days of her menstruation - she shall be unclean.
LEV 15:26 And every bed upon of which ever she should go to bed upon it all the days of her flow will be to her as the bed of her menstruation. And every item upon which ever she should sit upon it shall be unclean, according to the uncleanness of her menstruation.
LEV 15:27 And every man touching her shall be unclean, and shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
LEV 15:28 But if she should be cleansed from her flow, then she shall count out to herself seven days, and after this she shall be cleansed.
LEV 15:29 And the eighth day she shall take for herself two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and shall bring them to the priest, unto the door of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 15:30 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the one for a whole burnt offering. And the priest shall atone for her before the LORD of the flow of her uncleanness.
LEV 15:31 And you shall make the sons of Israel reverent because of their uncleannesses, and they shall not die on account of their uncleanness, in their defiling my tent among them.
LEV 15:32 This is the law of the one having a seminal emission - even if one should come forth from his marriage-bed of semen, so as to be defiled by it;
LEV 15:33 and the one hemorrhaging in her menstruation, and the one having a seminal emission in his flow to the male or the female, and to the husbandman. if he should go to bed with one sitting apart.
LEV 16:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses after the coming to an end of the two sons of Aaron, in their offering alien fire before the LORD, and they came to an end.
LEV 16:2 And the LORD said to Moses, Speak to Aaron your brother, that he enters not at any hour into the holy place inside the veil, at the front of the atonement-seat, which is upon the ark of the testimony, that he shall not die! For in a cloud I will appear upon the atonement-seat.
LEV 16:3 Thus Aaron shall enter into the holy place - with a calf of the oxen for a sin offering, and a ram for a whole burnt offering.
LEV 16:4 And he shall put on an inner garment of flaxen linen having been sanctified; and flaxen linen pants will be upon his flesh, and a flaxen linen belt shall be tied around, and a flaxen linen turban shall be placed - they are the holy garments. And he shall bathe in water all his body, and shall put them on.
LEV 16:5 And from the congregation of the sons of Israel he shall take two young he-goats of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a whole burnt offering.
LEV 16:6 And Aaron shall bring the calf for a sin offering for himself, and shall atone for himself and his house.
LEV 16:7 And he shall take the two young he-goats, and present them before the LORD by the door of the tent of the testimony.
LEV 16:8 And Aaron shall place lots upon the two young he-goats; one lot to the LORD, and one lot to the scapegoat.
LEV 16:9 And Aaron shall bring the young he-goat upon which came unto it the lot to the LORD, and shall offer it for a sin offering.
LEV 16:10 And the young he-goat, upon which the lot of the scapegoat came unto it, he shall set it living before the LORD, so as to atone for him, so as to send him out as the scapegoat, and to let him go into the wilderness.
LEV 16:11 And Aaron shall bring the calf for the sin offering for himself, and shall atone for himself and his house; and he shall slay the calf for the sin offering for himself.
LEV 16:12 And he shall take the censer full of coals of fire from the altar before the LORD, and shall fill his hands of fine incense composition, and shall carry it inside the veil.
LEV 16:13 And he shall place the incense upon the fire before the LORD. And the vapor of the incense shall cover the atonement-seat upon the testimonies, and he shall not die.
LEV 16:14 And he shall take some of the blood of the calf, and shall sprinkle with his finger on the atonement-seat, according to the east; in front of the atonement-seat he shall sprinkle seven times of the blood with his finger.
LEV 16:15 And he shall slay the young he-goat for a sin offering for the people, before the LORD. And he shall carry its blood inside the veil, and shall offer its blood in which manner he offered the blood of the calf, and shall sprinkle its blood on the atonement-seat, according to the front of the atonement-seat.
LEV 16:16 And he shall atone the holy place of the uncleannesses of the sons of Israel, and of their offences for all their sins. And thus he shall do to the tent of the testimony created among them in the midst of their uncleanness.
LEV 16:17 And every man shall not be in the tent of the testimony, of his entering to atone in the holy place, until whenever he should come forth, and shall atone for himself, and his house, and for all the congregation of Israel.
LEV 16:18 And he shall come forth unto the altar before the LORD, and shall atone upon it. And he shall take from the blood of the calf, and from the blood of the young he-goat, and shall place it upon the horns of the altar round about.
LEV 16:19 And he shall sprinkle upon it some of the blood with his finger seven times, and shall cleanse it, and shall sanctify it from the uncleannesses of the sons of Israel.
LEV 16:20 And he shall complete making an atonement for the holy place, and the tent of the testimony, and the altar, and shall make a cleansing for the priests, and shall bring the living young he-goat.
LEV 16:21 And Aaron shall place his two hands upon the head of the living young he-goat, and shall declare openly over it all the lawless deeds of the sons of Israel, and all their iniquities, and all their sins. And he shall place them upon the head of the living young he-goat, and shall send it out by the hand of a prepared man into the wilderness.
LEV 16:22 And the young he-goat shall take upon himself their lawlessnesses into a land untrodden. And he shall send out the young he-goat into the wilderness.
LEV 16:23 And Aaron shall enter into the tent of the testimony, and shall take off the flaxen linen apparel, which he put on of his entering into the holy place, and shall put it aside there.
LEV 16:24 And he shall bathe his body in water in the holy place, and shall put on his apparel, and coming forth shall offer his whole burnt offering, and the whole offering of the people, and shall atone for himself, and for his house, and for the people as for the priests.
LEV 16:25 And the fat for the sin offerings he shall offer upon the altar.
LEV 16:26 And the one sending out the young he-goat, the one having been drawn apart for release, shall wash his garments, and shall bathe his body in water, and after these things he shall enter into the camp.
LEV 16:27 And the calf for the sin offering, and the young he-goat for the sin offering, which their blood was carried to atone in the holy place, they shall bring them outside the camp, and shall incinerate them in fire, and their skins, and their meats, and their dung.
LEV 16:28 And the one incinerating them shall wash his garments, and shall bathe his body in water, and after these things he shall enter into the camp.
LEV 16:29 And this shall be to you an eternal law. In the seventh month, the tenth of the month, humble your souls! And you shall not do any work - the native born and the foreigner joining up with you.
LEV 16:30 For in this day he shall atone for you, to cleanse you from all your sins before the LORD, and you shall be cleansed.
LEV 16:31 A sabbath of sabbaths it shall be to you. And you shall humble your souls - an eternal law.
LEV 16:32 And the priest shall make atonement - whom ever they should anoint him, and whom ever shall perfect his hands to officiate as priest after his father. And he shall put on the flaxen linen apparel - holy apparel.
LEV 16:33 And he shall atone the holy of the holy. And the tent of the testimony and the altar he shall atone. And for the priests, and for all the congregation he shall atone.
LEV 16:34 And this will be to you an eternal law, to atone for the sons of Israel from all their sins. Once of the year you shall do as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
LEV 17:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 17:2 Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them this saying which the LORD gives charge, saying,
LEV 17:3 A man, a man of the sons of Israel, who ever should slay a calf or a sheep or a goat in the camp, and who ever should slay outside the camp,
LEV 17:4 and should not bring it to the door of the tent of the testimony, so as to bring a gift to the LORD before the tent of the LORD; blood shall be imputed to that man, for blood was poured out. That soul shall be utterly destroyed from its people,
LEV 17:5 so that the sons of Israel should bring their sacrifices, as many as they should slay in the plains, and shall bring them to the LORD at the door of the tent of the testimony, to the priest. And they shall sacrifice them as a sacrifice of deliverance to the LORD.
LEV 17:6 And the priest shall pour the blood upon the altar, before the LORD, by the door of the tent of the testimony. And he shall offer the fat for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 17:7 And they shall not sacrifice still their sacrifices to the vain gods in which they fornicate after them. It will be an eternal law to you unto your generations.
LEV 17:8 And you shall say to them, A man, a man from the sons of Israel, and from the foreigners of the ones lying nearby among you, who ever should offer a whole burnt offering or sacrifice,
LEV 17:9 and at the door of the tent of the testimony should not bring anything to offer it to the LORD, that man shall be utterly destroyed from his people.
LEV 17:10 And a man, a man of the sons of Israel, or of the foreigners of the ones lying nearby among you, who ever should eat any blood; even I will set my face against the soul eating the blood, and I will destroy it from out of its people.
LEV 17:11 For the life of all flesh is its blood. And I gave it to you upon the altar to atone for your souls. For its blood shall atone for the soul.
LEV 17:12 On account of this I have said to the sons of Israel, Every soul of you shall not eat blood; and the foreigner, the one lying near by to you shall not eat blood.
LEV 17:13 And a man, a man of the sons of Israel, or of the foreigners of the ones lying near to you, who ever shall hunt a hunt for a wild beast or birds, which is to be eaten, shall pour out its blood, and cover it in the ground.
LEV 17:14 For the life of all flesh is its blood. And I said to the sons of Israel, The blood of all flesh you shall not eat; for life of all flesh is its blood. Every one eating it shall be utterly destroyed.
LEV 17:15 And every soul who should eat decaying flesh, or flesh taken by wild beasts, among the native born, or by the foreigners, shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and will be unclean until evening - then he will be clean.
LEV 17:16 But if he should not wash his garments, and should not bathe his body in water, then he shall take the violation of the law himself.
LEV 18:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 18:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, I am the LORD your God.
LEV 18:3 According to the practices of the land of Egypt, in which you sojourned in it, you shall not do. And according to the practices of the land of Canaan, into which I bring you there, you shall not do. And their laws you shall not go by.
LEV 18:4 My judgments you shall execute, and my orders you shall keep, and shall go by them - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 18:5 And you shall keep all my orders, and all my judgments; and you shall observe them - by which a man observing them shall live by them. I am the LORD your God.
LEV 18:6 A man, a man shall not draw near to any family member of his flesh to uncover their indecency - I am the LORD.
LEV 18:7 The indecency of your father, and the indecency of your mother, you shall not uncover - for she is your mother. Her indecency you shall not uncover.
LEV 18:8 The indecency of a wife of your father you shall not uncover - it is your father's indecency.
LEV 18:9 The indecency of your sister of your father or of your mother, natural or being procreated outside - you shall not uncover their indecency.
LEV 18:10 The indecency of a daughter of your son, or a daughter of your daughter - you shall not uncover their indecency, for it is your indecency.
LEV 18:11 The indecency of the daughter of your father's wife you shall not uncover - she is your sister of the same father, you shall not uncover her indecency.
LEV 18:12 The indecency of your father's sister you shall not uncover, for she is a member of the family of your father.
LEV 18:13 The indecency of your mother's sister you shall not uncover, for she is a member of the family of your mother.
LEV 18:14 The indecency of a brother of your father you shall not uncover, and to his wife you shall not enter, for she is your relative.
LEV 18:15 The indecency of your daughter-in-law you shall not uncover, for she is your son's wife - you shall not uncover her indecency.
LEV 18:16 The indecency of your brother's wife you shall not uncover - it is your brother's indecency.
LEV 18:17 The indecency of a woman and her daughter you shall not uncover; the daughter of her son and the daughter of her daughter you shall not take to uncover their indecency - they are members of your family; it is an act of impiety.
LEV 18:18 You shall not take a wife in addition to her sister as a rival, to uncover her indecency instead of her, while she is yet living.
LEV 18:19 And to a wife in separation of her uncleanness you shall not enter, to uncover her indecency.
LEV 18:20 And to the wife of your neighbor you shall not give a marriage-bed of your semen, to be thoroughly defiled with her.
LEV 18:21 And you shall not give of your semen to serve a ruler; and you shall not profane the holy name - I am the LORD.
LEV 18:22 And with a man you shall not go to bed in a marriage-bed in the feminine way; for it is an abomination.
LEV 18:23 And with any four-footed creature, you shall not give your marriage-bed for a discharge of semen, to be thoroughly defiled with it. And a woman shall not set herself with any four-footed creature to breed; for it is detestable.
LEV 18:24 Do not defile yourselves in any of these; for in all these the nations were defiled which I eject before your face.
LEV 18:25 And the land was thoroughly defiled; and I recompensed injustice to them because of it, and the land is loathed with the ones lying in wait upon it.
LEV 18:26 And you shall guard all my laws, and my orders, and the native inhabitant and the foreigner uniting with you shall not do any of these abominations.
LEV 18:27 For all these abominations the men of the land committed - the ones being prior of you, and the land was defiled.
LEV 18:28 And lest the land should loathe you in your defiling it, in which manner it loathed the nations before you -
LEV 18:29 that all who ever should do of all these abominations shall be utterly destroyed (the souls doing them) from out of the midst of their people.
LEV 18:30 And you shall keep my orders, so that you should not do of any of the laws of the ones being abhorred, which happened before you, and so that you shall not be defiled among them - for I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 19:2 Speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, You shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy.
LEV 19:3 Let each one fear his father and his mother! And my sabbaths you shall keep - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:4 You shall not follow after idols, and you shall not make to yourselves molten gods - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:5 And if you should sacrifice a sacrifice of deliverance offering to the LORD, you shall sacrifice acceptable for yourselves.
LEV 19:6 In which ever day you should sacrifice, it shall be eaten, and in the next morning. And if any should be left behind until the third day, it shall be incinerated by fire.
LEV 19:7 And if food should be eaten the third day it is unfit, you shall not accept it.
LEV 19:8 And the one eating it shall take the sin, for the holy things of the LORD he profaned. And the souls eating it shall be utterly destroyed from their people.
LEV 19:9 And of your reaping the harvest of your land - you shall not complete your harvest of your field to completely reap it; and the parts falling away of your harvest you shall not collect together.
LEV 19:10 And of your vineyard you shall not glean the vintage; nor shall you collect together the grape-stones of your vineyard - to the poor and to the foreigner you shall leave behind for them. I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:11 You shall not steal, and you shall not lie, nor shall you extort each his neighbor.
LEV 19:12 And you shall not swear by an oath upon my name unjustly. And you shall not profane the holy name of your God - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:13 You shall not wrong your neighbor, and you shall not seize by force, and the wages of your hireling shall not go to bed with you until morning.
LEV 19:14 You shall not wickedly speak to a mute, and before the blind you shall not put an obstacle. And you shall fear the LORD your God - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:15 You shall not act unjustly in a judgment. You shall not take favor on the face of the poor, nor marvel before the face of a mighty one. With righteousness you shall judge your neighbor.
LEV 19:16 You shall not go by treachery among your nation. You shall not rise up together for blood of your neighbor - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:17 You shall not detest your brother in your mind. With rebuke you shall reprove your neighbor, and you shall not take sin on account of him.
LEV 19:18 And your hand shall not avenge. And you shall not be infuriated at the sons of your people. And you shall love your neighbor as yourself - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:19 My law you shall keep. Your cattle you shall not mate unequally yoked. And in your vineyard you shall not scatter abroad diverse seed. And a garment of two materials being woven commingled you shall not put upon yourself.
LEV 19:20 And if any man should go to bed with a woman in the marriage-bed of semen, and she is a domestic servant being guarded for a man, and to her ransoms have not been ransomed, or freedom was not given to her; an overseeing will be to them; they shall not die, for she was not set free.
LEV 19:21 And he shall bring his trespass offering to the LORD by the door of the tent of the testimony - a ram for a trespass offering.
LEV 19:22 And the priest shall atone for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin of which he sinned; and the sin shall be forgiven him which he sinned.
LEV 19:23 And whenever you should enter into the land which the LORD your God gives to you, and you should plant any eatable tree, then you shall purge away its uncleanness. Its fruit for three years will be impure to you - it shall not be eaten.
LEV 19:24 And the fourth year all of its fruit will be holy, praiseworthy to the LORD.
LEV 19:25 And in the fifth year you shall eat of its fruit; its produce is an addition to you - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:26 Eat not upon the mountains; and you shall not foretell, nor use augury!
LEV 19:27 You shall not make a lock of hair consecrated to an idol from out of the hair of your head, nor shall you corrupt the appearance of your beards.
LEV 19:28 And you shall not make cuts for a dead soul on your body; and letter marks you shall not make upon you - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:29 You shall not profane your daughter to fornicate her; and you shall not fornicate the land, and the land be filled of lawlessness.
LEV 19:30 My sabbaths you shall keep, and of my holy things you shall fear - I am the LORD.
LEV 19:31 You shall not follow after ones who deliver oracles, and to the enchanters you shall not cleave to be thoroughly defiled by them - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:32 At the face of a gray haired one you shall rise up, and you shall esteem the face of an older one. And you shall fear your God - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:33 And if any foreigner in your land should come forward to you, you shall not afflict him.
LEV 19:34 The foreigner approaching to you shall be as the native born among you; and you shall love him as yourself, for you became foreigners in the land of Egypt - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 19:35 You shall not act unjustly in an equity with measures, and with weights, and with yoke balance scales.
LEV 19:36 Just yoke balance scales, and just dry measure weights, and a just coos liquid measure shall be to you - I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt.
LEV 19:37 And you shall keep all my laws, and all my orders, and shall do them - I am the LORD.
LEV 20:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 20:2 And to the sons of Israel you shall speak, saying, If any from the sons of Israel, or of the ones uniting with foreigners in Israel, who ever should give his semen to a chief god, to death let him be put to death! The nation - the people upon the land shall stone him with stones.
LEV 20:3 And I will set my face against that man, and I will destroy him from out of his people. For of his semen he gave to a chief god, that he should defile my holy place, and should profane the name - the one having been sanctified to me.
LEV 20:4 And if in disdain the native-born of the land should overlook with their eyes of that man, in his giving his semen to a chief god, to not kill him,
LEV 20:5 then I shall set my face against that man, and his kin, and I will destroy him, and all the ones consenting with him, so as for their fornicating with the ruling gods of their people.
LEV 20:6 And a soul who ever should follow after ones who deliver oracles, or enchanters, so as to fornicate after them, I will set my face against that soul, and I will destroy it from out of its people.
LEV 20:7 And you shall be sanctified, and you shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy.
LEV 20:8 And you shall keep my orders, and you shall do them - I am the LORD sanctifying you.
LEV 20:9 A man, a man who ever should speak wickedly of his father or of his mother - unto death let him be put to death! He spoke wickedly of his father or of his mother - he shall be liable.
LEV 20:10 And a man, a man who ever should commit adultery with a man's wife, or who ever should commit adultery with a wife of his neighbor, to death let them be put to death - the man committing adultery and the woman committing adultery!
LEV 20:11 And if anyone should have bedded with the wife of his father, to uncover the indecency of his father, to death let them be put to death - both are liable!
LEV 20:12 And if anyone should have bedded with his daughter-in-law, unto death let them be put to death - both were impious; they are liable!
LEV 20:13 And who ever should have bedded with a male as the marriage-bed of a woman, both did an abomination; to death let them be put to death - they are liable!
LEV 20:14 Who ever should take a wife and her mother, it is a violation of the law - in fire they shall incinerate him and them; and there shall not be a violation of the law among you.
LEV 20:15 And who ever should give over to his laying with a four-footed creature, to death let him be put to death! And the four-footed creature you shall kill.
LEV 20:16 And a woman, whoever should come forward to any beast to breed herself by it, you shall kill the woman and the beast - unto death let them be put to death, they are liable!
LEV 20:17 Who ever should take his sister of his father, or of his mother, and should look at her indecency, and she should look at his indecency, it is scornful, they shall be utterly destroyed before the sons of their race, for the indecency of his sister he uncovered - his sin he shall receive.
LEV 20:18 And a man who ever should go to bed with a woman sitting apart, and shall uncover her indecency, he uncovered her flow, and she uncovered the flow of her blood - both shall be utterly destroyed from their generation.
LEV 20:19 And the indecency of your father's sister, and your mother's sister you shall not uncover, for he uncovered the family intimacy - they shall carry their sin.
LEV 20:20 And who ever should have gone to bed with his relative, he uncovered the indecency of his kin - they shall die childless.
LEV 20:21 And a man who ever should take the wife of his brother, it is uncleanness; he uncovered his brother's indecency - they shall die childless.
LEV 20:22 And you shall keep all my orders, and all my judgments. And if you shall do them, then in no way should the land loathe you, into which I bring you there to dwell upon it.
LEV 20:23 And go not in the laws of the nations which I eject from you! For all these things they did, and I abhor them.
LEV 20:24 And I said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you for a possession, a land flowing milk and honey - I am the LORD your God, who separated you from all the nations.
LEV 20:25 And you shall separate yourselves between the cattle of the clean and unclean, and between the winged creatures of the clean and the unclean. And you shall not make your souls abhorrent among the cattle, and among the winged creatures, and among all the reptiles of the earth, which I separated to you for uncleanness.
LEV 20:26 And you will be holy to me, for I am holy, the LORD your God, the one separating you from all the nations to be mine.
LEV 20:27 And a man or a woman who ever of them should become a deliverer of oracles, or an enchanter, to death let them be put to death - both! By stones stone them - they are liable!
LEV 21:1 And the LORD said to Moses, saying, Speak to the priests, to the sons of Aaron! And you shall say to them, that they shall not defile themselves in the dead souls among their nation;
LEV 21:2 but only among the members of the family near them - for father, and for mother, and for sons, and for daughters, and for brother,
LEV 21:3 and for his virgin sister being near to him, the sister not being espoused to a man - for these he shall not defile himself
LEV 21:4 suddenly among his people by profaning himself.
LEV 21:5 And to baldness you shall not shave your head for the dead, and the appearance of the beard they shall not shave, and upon their flesh they shall not mutilate by cuts.
LEV 21:6 They shall be holy to their God, and they shall not profane the name of their God, for they offer the sacrifices of the LORD as gifts to their God, and they shall be holy.
LEV 21:7 A woman harlot and being profaned they shall not take for wife; and a woman being cast out from her husband they shall not take - for he is holy to the LORD his God.
LEV 21:8 And you shall sanctify him; for the gifts of the LORD your God this one offers - he shall be holy, for I the LORD am holy, the one sanctifying them.
LEV 21:9 And a daughter of a man being a priest, if she should be profaned to fornicate, she profanes the name of her father - by fire she shall be incinerated.
LEV 21:10 And the great priest from among his brothers, of the one having the oil of the anointing poured upon his head, and his hands having been perfected to put on the garments - the head shall not be without a turban, and the garments he shall not tear up;
LEV 21:11 and he shall not enter unto any soul coming to an end, he shall not be defiled by his father nor by his mother;
LEV 21:12 and from out of the holies he shall not come forth; and he shall not profane the thing having been sanctified of his God, for the holy anointing oil of his God is upon him - I am the LORD.
LEV 21:13 This one shall take a virgin woman from his family.
LEV 21:14 But a widow, and one being cast out, and being profaned, and a harlot, these he shall not take; but only a virgin from out of his people shall he take for a wife.
LEV 21:15 And he shall not profane his semen among his people - I am the LORD God, the one sanctifying him.
LEV 21:16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 21:17 Speak to Aaron, saying, A man from your kind, throughout your generations, to any if there might be on him a blemish, shall not come forward to offer the gifts of his God.
LEV 21:18 Any man in which ever might be in him a blemish, shall not come forward - a blind man, or lame, or splitmouth, or with mutilated ears,
LEV 21:19 or a man in which might be in him a broken hand, or a broken foot,
LEV 21:20 or humpback, or peeling, or hairless of the eyes, or a man in which ever might be in him a wild mange, or scabbed, or having one testicle.
LEV 21:21 Every man in which there is on him a blemish from the seed of Aaron the priest shall not approach to offer the sacrifices to the LORD; for a blemish is on him; he shall not come forward to bring the gifts of his God.
LEV 21:22 The holies of the holies, and of the holy things he shall eat.
LEV 21:23 Except to the veil he shall not come forward, and to the altar he shall not approach, for he has a blemish; and he shall not profane the holy things of his God; for I the LORD am the one sanctifying them.
LEV 21:24 And Moses spoke to Aaron, and his sons, and to all of the sons of Israel.
LEV 22:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 22:2 Speak to Aaron and to his sons! And let them take heed concerning the holy things of the sons of Israel, and they shall not profane my holy name, as much as they sanctify to me - I am the LORD!
LEV 22:3 Say to them! Unto your generations every man who ever should come forward from all your seed to the holy things, as much as indeed the sons of Israel should sanctify to the LORD, and his uncleanness is upon him, they shall utterly destroy that soul from me - I am the LORD.
LEV 22:4 And a man of the seed of Aaron the priest, and this one is leprous or having gonorrhea, shall not eat of the holy things, until whenever he should be cleansed. And the one touching any uncleanness of soul, or a man in whom ever should come forth from out of his marriage-bed of semen,
LEV 22:5 or who ever should touch any unclean reptile, which should defile him, or come upon a man in which he shall defile him according to any of his uncleanness;
LEV 22:6 the soul who ever should touch them will be unclean until evening - he shall not eat from the holy things, if he should not have bathed his body in water.
LEV 22:7 And when the sun should go down, then he will be clean, and then he shall eat from the holy things, for it is his bread.
LEV 22:8 Decaying flesh, and that taken by wild beasts, he shall not eat to be defiled by it - I am the LORD.
LEV 22:9 And they shall guard my injunctions, that they should not take sin on account of them, and should die because of them, if they shall profane them - I am the LORD, the one sanctifying them.
LEV 22:10 And all of another race shall not eat the holy things - a sojourner with a priest, or a hireling, shall not eat the holy things.
LEV 22:11 And if a priest should acquire a soul procured with silver, he shall eat of his bread; and his native-born servants, even these shall eat of his bread.
LEV 22:12 And a daughter of a man a priest, if she should become the wife of a man of another race, she shall not eat of the first-fruits of the holy things.
LEV 22:13 And the daughter of a priest, if she becomes a widow or being cast out, and seed might not be in her, and she shall return unto the house of her father, as in her youth - from the breads of her father she shall eat. And all of another race shall not eat of them.
LEV 22:14 And a man who ever should eat holy things according to ignorance, then he shall add his fifth part unto it, and shall give to the priest the holy thing.
LEV 22:15 And they shall not profane the holy things of the sons of Israel, which they offer to the LORD;
LEV 22:16 that they shall bring upon themselves lawlessness of the trespass in their eating their holy things - for I am the LORD, the one sanctifying them.
LEV 22:17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 22:18 Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the congregation of the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, A man, a man from the sons of Israel, or of the foreigners lying near them among Israel, who ever should offer his gifts according to every acknowledgment offering of theirs, or according to every choice offering of theirs, as much as they should offer to the LORD for a whole burnt offering,
LEV 22:19 what is acceptable unto you is an unblemished male of the herds, and of the sheep, and of the goats.
LEV 22:20 Of all as many as you have with a blemish among them you shall not bring to the LORD; for it shall not be accepted for you.
LEV 22:21 And a man who ever should offer a sacrifice of deliverance offering to the LORD, while setting apart a vow, or according to a choice offering, or in your holiday feasts, out of the herds or of the sheep, it shall be unblemished for acceptance - There shall not be any blemish upon it.
LEV 22:22 Blind, or broken, or with the tongue cut out, or troubled with warts, or chronic mange, or having scabs - they shall not bring these to the LORD; and for a yield offering you shall not give of them upon the altar to the LORD.
LEV 22:23 And a calf or a sheep with mutilated ears, or tailless, you shall make them for slaughter to yourself; but for your vow it shall not be taken.
LEV 22:24 Crushed testicles, or being squeezed out, or emasculated, or drawn away - you shall not bring them to the LORD - even upon your land you shall not offer them.
LEV 22:25 And from out of the hand of a son of another race you shall not offer the gifts of your God of all these things; for there is corruption in them, a blemish in them - these shall not be received to you.
LEV 22:26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 22:27 A calf, or a sheep, or a goat, when ever it is born, then it shall be seven days under its mother; but the eighth day and beyond it shall be accepted for gift offerings - a yield offering to the LORD.
LEV 22:28 And a calf and a sheep - it and its offspring you shall not slay in one day.
LEV 22:29 And if you should sacrifice a sacrifice vow of joyfulness to the LORD, you shall sacrifice it acceptable to you.
LEV 22:30 In that day it shall be eaten; you shall not leave of the meats into the morning - I am the LORD.
LEV 22:31 And you shall keep my commandments, and you shall observe them - I am the LORD.
LEV 22:32 And you shall not profane my holy name; and I shall be sanctified in the midst of the sons of Israel - I am the LORD, the one sanctifying you,
LEV 22:33 the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, so as to be your God - I am the LORD.
LEV 23:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 23:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, The holiday feasts of the LORD which you shall call them holy convocations - these are my holiday feasts.
LEV 23:3 Six days you shall do work, but the seventh day is a sabbath rest, a holy convocation to the LORD; all work you shall not do, it is a sabbath to the LORD in all your house.
LEV 23:4 These are the holiday feasts to the LORD, holy convocations, which you shall call them in their seasons.
LEV 23:5 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, between the evenings is a passover to the LORD.
LEV 23:6 And on the fifteenth day of this month is the holiday feast of the unleavened breads to the LORD. Seven days you shall eat unleavened breads.
LEV 23:7 And the first day will be a holy convocation to you - you shall not do any servile work.
LEV 23:8 And you shall bring a whole burnt offering to the LORD seven days. And the seventh day will be a holy convocation to you - you shall not do any servile work.
LEV 23:9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 23:10 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, Whenever you should enter into the land which I give to you, and should harvest its harvest, even you shall bring the sheaf first-fruit of your harvest to the priest.
LEV 23:11 And he shall offer the sheaf before the LORD accepted for you. On the next day of the first of the sabbaths the priest shall offer it.
LEV 23:12 And you shall offer on the day in which ever you should bring the sheaf - a sheep unblemished of a year old for a whole burnt offering to the LORD.
LEV 23:13 And with its sacrifice two tenths of fine flour being prepared in olive oil, a sacrifice to the LORD for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD; and its libation - the fourth of the hin of wine.
LEV 23:14 And bread, and new parched green wheat, you shall not eat until this same day, until whenever you should offer the gifts to your God - an eternal law unto your generations in every dwelling of yours.
LEV 23:15 And you shall count to yourselves from the next day of the sabbaths, from the day which ever you should bring the sheaf of the increase offering, seven entire periods of seven.
LEV 23:16 Until the next day of the last period of seven you shall count fifty days; and you shall bring a new sacrifice offering to the LORD.
LEV 23:17 From your houses you shall bring breads - an increase offering. They shall be two breads of two tenths of fine flour, baked being leaven of the first produce to the LORD.
LEV 23:18 And you shall bring with the breads seven unblemished lambs of a year old, and one calf of the herd, and two unblemished rams. And they shall be a whole burnt offering to the LORD, and their sacrifice offerings, and their libations, a sacrifice scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
LEV 23:19 And they shall offer a young he-goat from out of the goats - one for a sin offering, and two lambs of a year old for a sacrifice of deliverance offering, with the breads of the first produce.
LEV 23:20 And the priest shall place them with the breads of the first produce increase offering before the LORD, with the two lambs. They shall be holy to the LORD - to the priest bringing them, to him it will be.
LEV 23:21 And you shall call this day a convocation - it shall be holy to you. You shall not do any servile work on it, it is an eternal law unto your generations in all your house.
LEV 23:22 And whenever you shall harvest the harvest of your land, you shall not complete the remainder of the harvest of your field in your harvesting. And the fall away portions of your harvest you shall not collect together; to the poor, and to the foreigner, you shall leave them - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 23:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 23:24 Speak to the sons of Israel, saying! The seventh month, day one of the month, will be to you a rest, a memorial of trumpets, a holy convocation to the LORD.
LEV 23:25 You shall not do any servile work, and you shall bring a whole burnt offering to the LORD.
LEV 23:26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 23:27 Also on the tenth of this seventh month is a day of making an atonement - it will be a holy convocation to you; and you shall humble your souls, and shall bring a whole burnt offering to the LORD.
LEV 23:28 All work you shall not do in it, in this day, for this is to you a day of making an atonement, to atone for you before the LORD your God.
LEV 23:29 Every soul who shall not be humbled in it, in this day, shall be utterly destroyed from among its people.
LEV 23:30 And every soul which shall do work in it, in this day, that soul shall be destroyed from among its people.
LEV 23:31 All work you shall not do - it is an eternal law unto your generations in all your houses.
LEV 23:32 A sabbath of sabbaths it will be to you, and you shall humble your souls. From the ninth of the month, from evening to evening, you shall observe the sabbath of your sabbaths.
LEV 23:33 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 23:34 Speak to the sons of Israel! saying, The fifteenth of the seventh month, this is a holiday of tents for seven days to the LORD.
LEV 23:35 And the first day shall be a holy convocation to you - you shall not do any servile work.
LEV 23:36 Seven days you shall bring the whole burnt offerings to the LORD, and the eighth day will be a holy convocation to you; and you shall bring a whole burnt offering to the LORD - it is a holiday recess, you shall not do any servile work.
LEV 23:37 These are holiday feasts to the LORD, which you shall call them holy convocations, so as to bring a yield offering to the LORD, whole burnt offerings, and their sacrifices, and libations; the thing according to day by day;
LEV 23:38 besides the sabbaths of the LORD, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your voluntary offerings, which ever you shall give to the LORD.
LEV 23:39 And on the fifteenth day of this seventh month, whenever you should complete gathering the produce of the land, you shall solemnize a holiday to the LORD for seven days - on the first day a rest, and on the eighth day a rest.
LEV 23:40 And you shall take to yourselves on the first day beautiful fruit of the tree, and palm branches of palm trees, and tender branches of a bushy tree, and willows, and tender branches of the chaste tree of a rushing stream; and you shall be glad before the LORD your God seven days.
LEV 23:41 And you shall solemnize it the holiday to the LORD seven days of the year - an eternal law unto your generations. In the seventh month you shall solemnize it a holiday.
LEV 23:42 In tents you shall dwell for seven days; all the native born in Israel shall dwell in tents.
LEV 23:43 That your generations should see that in tents I settled the sons of Israel, in my leading them from our of the land of Egypt - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 23:44 And Moses told the holidays of the LORD to the sons of Israel.
LEV 24:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 24:2 Give charge to the sons of Israel! And let them take to you olive oil, pure, being beaten for light to burn in a lamp continually.
LEV 24:3 From outside the veil, in the tent of the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall burn it from evening until morning before the LORD perpetually - an eternal law unto your generations.
LEV 24:4 Upon the pure lamp-stand you shall burn the lamps before the LORD until into the morning.
LEV 24:5 And you shall take fine flour, and you shall make for it twelve breads; two tenths parts will be for the one bread.
LEV 24:6 And you shall place them two places - six breads to each one place upon the pure table before the LORD.
LEV 24:7 And you shall place upon the place pure frankincense and salt; and they will be the breads for remembrance being situated before the LORD.
LEV 24:8 On the day of the sabbaths you shall put them before the LORD always, before the sons of Israel - an eternal covenant.
LEV 24:9 And it will be for Aaron, and to his sons. And they shall eat them in the holy place; for this is a holy of holies to him from the things being sacrificed to the LORD - an eternal law.
LEV 24:10 And a son of an Israelitish woman went forth, and he was a son of an Egyptian man among the sons of Israel. And they did combat in the camp - the one of the Israelitish woman and the Israelite man.
LEV 24:11 And the son of the Israelitish woman named the name - he cursed. And they led him to Moses. And the name of his mother was Shelomith, daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
LEV 24:12 And they put him in prison, to litigate over him because of the order of the LORD.
LEV 24:13 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 24:14 Lead the one cursing outside the camp; and all the ones hearing shall place their hands upon his head, and all the congregation shall stone him.
LEV 24:15 And to the sons of Israel speak! And you shall say to them, A man, a man if he should curse God shall take the sin.
LEV 24:16 And the one naming the name of the LORD, to death let him be put to death! Let all the congregation stone him with stones. Whether a foreigner, or whether native born in his naming the name of the LORD - let him come to an end!
LEV 24:17 And a man who ever should strike the life of a man, and he should die, to death let him be put to death!
LEV 24:18 And who ever should strike cattle, and it should die, let him pay life for life!
LEV 24:19 And if any shall give a blemish to his neighbor; as he did to him, likewise he shall act against him.
LEV 24:20 A break for a break, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. In so far as he should give a blemish to a man, so it shall be given to him.
LEV 24:21 Who ever should strike a man, and he should die, to death let him be put to death!
LEV 24:22 Justice will be one to the foreigner, and the same to the native inhabitant - for I am the LORD your God.
LEV 24:23 And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and they led the one cursing outside the camp, and stoned him with stones. And the sons of Israel did just as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
LEV 25:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses on mount Sinai, saying,
LEV 25:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, Whenever you should enter into the land which I give to you, then the land shall rest a sabbath to the LORD.
LEV 25:3 Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall trim your grapevine, and you shall bring together its fruit.
LEV 25:4 But the seventh year will be a sabbath rest in the land - a sabbath to the LORD. You shall not sow your field, and you shall not trim your grapevine,
LEV 25:5 and the produce ascending by itself in your field you shall not reap up, and the grape of your sanctification you shall not gather in the vintage - a year's rest will be for the land.
LEV 25:6 And the sabbath of the land will be foods to you, and to your children, and to your maidservant, and to your hireling, and to the sojourner lying near to you,
LEV 25:7 and to your cattle, and to the beasts in your land - all of its produce shall be for food.
LEV 25:8 And you shall count out to yourself seven rests of years, seven years seven times. And they will be to you seven periods of seven of years, nine and forty years.
LEV 25:9 And you shall declare by trumpet sound in all your land, in the seventh month, the tenth of the month. In the day of making an atonement you shall declare by trumpet in all your land.
LEV 25:10 And you shall sanctify the year - the fiftieth year. And you shall proclaim forth a release upon the land to all the ones dwelling it. A year of release will be its indication to you. And you shall go forth each to his possession, and you shall go forth each to his family.
LEV 25:11 This indication year of release - it will be to you the fiftieth year. You shall not sow, nor in any way shall you reap the produce ascending of its self; and you shall not gather the vintage - the things having been sanctified of it.
LEV 25:12 For it is an indication of release - it shall be holy to you. From the fields you shall eat its produce.
LEV 25:13 In the year of the release, the indication of it, each shall return back unto his possession.
LEV 25:14 And if you should render a sale property to your neighbor, or if you should acquire by your neighbor, let not a man afflict his neighbor!
LEV 25:15 According to the number of years after the indication shall you acquire land from your neighbor, and according to the number of years left of the produce shall he sell to you.
LEV 25:16 In so far as there might be many of the years, he shall multiply the value of his possession; and in so far as there might be less of the years, he shall lessen the value of his possession; for by number of the produce years left shall he sell to you.
LEV 25:17 Let not a man afflict his neighbor! And you shall fear the LORD your God - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 25:18 And you shall observe all my ordinances, and all my judgments. And you shall keep, and you shall observe them; and you shall dwell upon the land complying.
LEV 25:19 And the land shall give its resources, and you shall eat in fullness, and you shall dwell complying upon it.
LEV 25:20 And if you should say, What shall we eat in this seventh year if we do not sow, and we do not gather in our produce?
LEV 25:21 Then I will send my blessing to you in the sixth year, and the land shall produce its produce for the three years.
LEV 25:22 And you shall sow the eighth year, and you shall eat of the old produce until the ninth year - until whenever its produce should come, you shall eat old produce of the old.
LEV 25:23 And the land shall not be sold for security - for the land is mine; for you are foreigners and sojourners before me.
LEV 25:24 And according to all the land of your possession you shall give ransoms for the land.
LEV 25:25 But if your brother with you should be in need, and should have sold part of his possession, and the one acting as next of kin being near to him should come, then he shall ransom the sale property of his brother.
LEV 25:26 But if there might not be any acting as next of kin, and later he should be well-provided in the hand, and should find himself fit for his ransoms,
LEV 25:27 then he shall reckon the years of his sale property, and shall give back the superior amount to the man to whom he sold it, and he shall return back to his possession.
LEV 25:28 But if his hand should not be well-provided with the thing fit so as to repay him, then his sale property will be to the one acquiring it until the year of the release; and it shall go forth in the release; then he shall go return to his possession.
LEV 25:29 But if any should sell a house inhabited in a city being walled, then there shall be the ransoming of it, until the time should be fulfilled - a year of days will be the time of ransoming of it.
LEV 25:30 But if it should not be ransomed until the entire year should be fulfilled, the house being in the city having a wall shall be validated firmly to the one acquiring it, unto his generations, and it shall not go forth in the release.
LEV 25:31 But the houses in properties, in which there is not among them a wall round about; they shall be considered belonging to the field of the land - ransomable always they shall be. And in the release they shall go forth.
LEV 25:32 And the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities of their possession, shall be always ransomable to the Levites.
LEV 25:33 And what ever should be ransomed by the Levites, then the sale of houses of the city of their possession shall go forth unto the release - for the houses of the cities of the Levites is their possession in the midst of the sons of Israel.
LEV 25:34 And the fields being separated in their cities shall not be sold - for this is their eternal possession.
LEV 25:35 And if your brother who is with you should be in need, and shall be powerless in the hands with you; then you shall take hold of him - and he shall live with you as a foreigner and a sojourner.
LEV 25:36 You shall not take interest from him, nor for an amount. And you shall fear your God; and your brother shall live with you.
LEV 25:37 You shall not give your money to him with interest due; and with usury you shall not give to him of your foods.
LEV 25:38 I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, to give to you the land of Canaan, so as to be your God.
LEV 25:39 And if your brother should be humbled by you, and should be sold to you, he shall not serve to you in the slavery of a servant.
LEV 25:40 He shall be as a hireling or a sojourner to you until the year of the release - thus he shall work for you.
LEV 25:41 And then he shall go forth in the release from you himself, and his children with him. And he shall go unto his family; unto the possession of his father he shall run.
LEV 25:42 For these are my servants whom I led out of the land of Egypt. They shall not be sold in a sale of a domestic servant.
LEV 25:43 You shall not violently strain him in his trouble, and you shall fear your God.
LEV 25:44 And a boy, and a girl, as many as should be to you from the nations, as many as there are round about you - from them you shall acquire a manservant and a maidservant.
LEV 25:45 And from the sons of the sojourners being among you - from these you shall acquire, and from their relatives with you. As many as happen to be in your land, let them be to you for a possession!
LEV 25:46 And you shall divide them to your children after you, and they shall be to you possessions unto the eon. But the ones of your brothers of the sons of Israel, each concerning his brother shall not violently strain him in his troubles.
LEV 25:47 And if wealth should find the hand of the foreigner or the sojourner of the one living by you; and your brother being in distress should be sold to the foreigner or to the sojourner living by you, or to a foreigner by birth;
LEV 25:48 after his being sold there shall be a ransoming to him - one of his brothers shall ransom him.
LEV 25:49 A brother of his father, or a son of his father's brother shall ransom him, or one of the members of the family of his flesh of his tribe shall ransom him. And if being well-provided in his hands, then he shall ransom himself.
LEV 25:50 And he shall reckon together with the one acquiring him from the year of which he sold himself to him until the year of the release. And the money of his sale will be as the day of a hireling - year to year he will be with him.
LEV 25:51 And if to any there might be many surplus years, for these he shall render his ransoms of the money of his sale.
LEV 25:52 And if few should be left behind of the years to the year of the release, then he shall reckon to him according to his years, and shall render his ransoms.
LEV 25:53 As a hireling year to year he shall be with him - you shall not violently strain him in his trouble before you.
LEV 25:54 And if he should not pay ransom according to these things, then he shall go forth in the year of the release - he and his children with him.
LEV 25:55 For to me the sons of Israel are servants; these are of my children, whom I led from out of the land of Egypt - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 26:1 You shall not make to yourselves handmade things, nor carvings, nor shall you raise up a monument to yourselves, nor a stone exemplar shall you stand in your land to do obeisance to it - I am the LORD your God.
LEV 26:2 My sabbaths you shall keep, and of my holy things you shall fear - I am the LORD.
LEV 26:3 If in my orders you should go, and my commandments you should keep, and should do them,
LEV 26:4 then I will give the rain to you in its season, and to the land I will give its produce, and the trees of the fields will give back their fruit.
LEV 26:5 And the threshing shall overtake among you the gathering of the crops; and the gathering of the crops shall overtake the sowing; and you shall eat your bread unto fullness. And you shall dwell with safety upon your land.
LEV 26:6 And I will put peace in your land, and you shall go to bed, and there shall not be among you one frightening. And I will destroy the ferocious wild beasts from your land, and war shall not go through your land.
LEV 26:7 And you shall pursue your enemies, and they shall fall before you in carnage.
LEV 26:8 And there shall pursue from out of you five after a hundred, and a hundred of you shall pursue tens of thousands; and your enemies shall fall before you by sword.
LEV 26:9 And I will look upon you, and I will increase you, and I will multiply you, and I will establish my covenant with you.
LEV 26:10 And you shall eat even the old of the old, and you shall bring forth the old in front of the new.
LEV 26:11 And I will put my tent among you, and my soul shall not abhor you.
LEV 26:12 And I will walk about among you, and will be your God, and you shall be to me for a people.
LEV 26:13 I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, where you were slaves. And I broke the bond of your yoke, and led you out in an open manner.
LEV 26:14 And if you should not obey me, nor should observe these my orders,
LEV 26:15 but should resist them, and should loathe my judgments in your soul, so as for you to not observe all my commandments, so as for you to efface my covenant;
LEV 26:16 then I will do thus to you; and I will set upon you perplexity, and also mange, and jaundice, inflaming of your eyes, and of your life wasting away. And you shall sow ineffectually of your seeds, and your opponents shall eat them.
LEV 26:17 And I will set my face against you, and you shall fall before your enemies; and the ones detesting you shall pursue you, and you shall flee with no one pursuing you.
LEV 26:18 And if in this you should not obey me, then I will add to correct you with strokes seven times for your sins.
LEV 26:19 And I will break the insolence of your pride; and I will establish your heaven as iron, and your land as brass.
LEV 26:20 And your strength shall be in vain. And the earth shall not give of your sowing it, and the tree of the field shall not give its fruit.
LEV 26:21 And if after these things you should go sideways, and should not want to obey me; I will add to you seven calamities according to your sins.
LEV 26:22 And I will send upon you the wild beasts of the land, and they shall eat you, and shall completely consume your cattle, and I will make you very few, and your ways shall be made desolate.
LEV 26:23 And if over these things you should not be corrected, but should go to me sideways,
LEV 26:24 I will go also with you in rage sideways, and will strike you also seven times for your sins.
LEV 26:25 And I will bring upon you a sword, avenging punishment of covenant. And you shall take refuge in your cities, and I will send out plague upon you; and you shall be delivered up into the hands of the enemies.
LEV 26:26 In your being afflicted there will be scarcity of breads. Ten women shall bake your breads in one oven, and they shall render the breads to you by money; and you shall eat, and no way shall you be filled.
LEV 26:27 And if upon this you do not obey me, but should go to me sideways,
LEV 26:28 then I myself shall go with you in rage sideways; and I will correct you, even I, seven times according to your sins.
LEV 26:29 And you shall eat the flesh of your sons; and the flesh of your daughters you shall eat.
LEV 26:30 And I will make desolate your monuments, and will utterly destroy your wooden images made by hands. And I will put your carcasses upon the carcasses of your idols, and my soul will loathe in you.
LEV 26:31 And I will establish your cities as desolate, and will make quite desolate your holy places, and no way shall I smell the scents of your sacrifices.
LEV 26:32 And I will make quite desolate, even I, your land. And your enemies dwelling in it shall wonder over it.
LEV 26:33 And I will disseminate you into the nations, and the sword coming upon you will completely consume you. And your land will be desolate, and your cities will be desolate places.
LEV 26:34 Then the land will favor its sabbaths all the days of its desolation, and you will be in the land of your enemies. Then the land shall observe the sabbath, and will favor its sabbaths.
LEV 26:35 All the days of its desolation it shall observe the sabbath, in which it did not observe the sabbath in your sabbaths, when you dwelt it.
LEV 26:36 And to the ones being left behind of you, I will bring dread into their heart in the land of their enemies. And the sound of a leaf being brought along will pursue them; and they shall flee as fleeing from war, and shall fall with no one pursuing.
LEV 26:37 And the brother will neglect his brother as in war, but with no one running them down. And you will not be able to oppose your enemies.
LEV 26:38 And you shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies will devour you.
LEV 26:39 And the ones being left behind from you shall be corrupted on account of their sins, and on account of the sins of their fathers. In the land of their enemies they shall be melted away.
LEV 26:40 And they shall declare openly their sins, and the sins of their fathers; for they violated and overlooked me, and that they went before me sideways.
LEV 26:41 And I went with them in rage sideways, and I will destroy them in the land of their enemies. Then their uncircumcised heart shall have felt shame, and then they shall think well on their sins.
LEV 26:42 And I shall remember the covenant of Jacob, and the covenant of Isaac; and the covenant of Abraham I shall remember; and the land I shall remember.
LEV 26:43 And the land shall be abandoned of them. Then the land shall favorably receive her sabbaths, in her being made desolate because of them. And they shall accept the things of their own lawlessness; because they overlooked my judgments, and they loathed my orders in their soul.
LEV 26:44 And thus, they being in the land of their enemies, I did not overlook them, nor loathed them so as to completely consume them for effacing my covenant with them - for I am the LORD their God.
LEV 26:45 And I will remember their covenant, the former one, when I led them from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery before the nations, to be their God - I am the LORD.
LEV 26:46 These are the judgments, and the orders, and the law, which the LORD made between himself and between the sons of Israel on mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.
LEV 27:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
LEV 27:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say unto them, A man who ever should vow a vow for a value of his life to the LORD,
LEV 27:3 it will be the value of a male from twenty years unto sixty years old - his value will be fifty double-drachmas of silver by the holy weight.
LEV 27:4 And the female will be the price of thirty double-drachmas.
LEV 27:5 And if from five years old unto twenty years old, the value of the male shall be twenty double-drachmas, and the female ten double-drachmas.
LEV 27:6 And from a month unto five years old, the value of the male shall be five double-drachmas of silver, and the female three double-drachmas of silver.
LEV 27:7 And if from sixty years old and up, if indeed it might be a male, his value shall be fifteen double-drachmas of silver; for the female ten double-drachmas.
LEV 27:8 And if he might be of low estate for a value, he shall be stood before the priest, and the priest shall value him, just as the hand of the one making a vow is able to afford - thus the priest shall value him.
LEV 27:9 And if it be from the cattle being offered of them as a gift to the LORD, who ever should give of these to the LORD shall be holy.
LEV 27:10 He shall not change it good for bad, nor bad for good. And if by bartering he should barter it cattle for cattle, it and the thing bartered shall be holy.
LEV 27:11 And if be any unclean beast, of which is not offered of them as a gift to the LORD, he shall set the beast before the priest.
LEV 27:12 And the priest shall value it, between good and between bad. And as far as the priest valuing it, so it will stand.
LEV 27:13 And if the one ransoming should ransom it, he shall add the fifth part to the value of it.
LEV 27:14 And a man who ever should sanctify his house holy to the LORD, then the priest shall value it between good and between bad - what ever the priest shall value it, so it shall stand.
LEV 27:15 And if the one sanctifying it should redeem his house, he shall add unto it the fifth part of the money for the value, and it shall be his.
LEV 27:16 And if a man should sanctify from the field of his possession to the LORD, then the value shall be according to its sowing - a cor of barley equals fifty double-drachmas of silver.
LEV 27:17 And if from the year of the release he should sanctify his field, according to his value it shall stand.
LEV 27:18 But if he should sanctify his field last after the release, the priest shall count in addition to it the money for the years remaining, until unto the next year of the release, and it shall be deducted from his valuation.
LEV 27:19 And if the one sanctifying the field should ransom it, he shall add the fifth part of the money to the value of it, and it will be his.
LEV 27:20 And if he should not ransom the field, and should give back the field to another man, no longer shall he ransom it.
LEV 27:21 But the field coming forth from the release will be holy to the LORD, as the land being separated - to the priest it will be his possession.
LEV 27:22 And if from the field of which he acquired, which is not from the field of his possession, that he should sanctify to the LORD,
LEV 27:23 the priest shall impute to him the full value from the year of the release; and he shall render the value in that day as holy to the LORD.
LEV 27:24 And in the year of the release he shall give back the field to the man from whom he acquired it, of whom was in possession of the land.
LEV 27:25 And all value will be by holy weights - twenty oboli will be the double-drachma.
LEV 27:26 And every first-born, which ever should be born among your cattle, will be to the LORD, and not anyone shall consecrate it; if also a calf, if also a sheep - it is to the LORD.
LEV 27:27 And if of the four-footed creatures of the unclean he should barter for the value of it, then he shall add his fifth part to it, and it will be his. But if he should not ransom it, it shall be sold according to its valuation.
LEV 27:28 And every offering for consumption, which ever a man should present to the LORD of all as much as is to him, from man unto beast, and from a field of his possession, he shall not sell it, nor ransom it; every offering for consumption will be a holy of holies to the LORD.
LEV 27:29 And all, what ever should be presented from men, it shall not be ransomed, but to death it shall be put to death.
LEV 27:30 Every tenth of the land, from the seed of the land, and from the fruit of the wood to the LORD, is holy to the LORD.
LEV 27:31 And if by ransoming a man should ransom his tenth, then his fifth part he shall add to it, and it will be his.
LEV 27:32 And every tenth of oxen, and sheep, and all which should go through in the number by the rod measure, the tenth will be holy to the LORD.
LEV 27:33 You shall not barter it good for bad, nor bad for good. And if in bartering you should barter it, it shall be and its barter holy; it shall not be ransomed.
LEV 27:34 These are the commandments which the LORD gave charge to Moses for the sons of Israel on mount Sinai.
NUM 1:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of the testimony, on day one of the second month of the second year of their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt, saying,
NUM 1:2 Take the sum of all the congregation of the sons of Israel according to their kin, and houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, every male according to their head count;
NUM 1:3 from twenty years and up, all going forth in the force of Israel; you number them with their force - you and Aaron!
NUM 1:4 And with you shall be each of the rulers according to each tribe; they shall be according to the houses of their patrimony.
NUM 1:5 And these are the names of the men who shall stand with you of the ones of Reuben - Elizur son of Shedeur.
NUM 1:6 Of the ones of Simeon - Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
NUM 1:7 Of the ones of Judah - Nashon son of Amminadab.
NUM 1:8 Of the ones of Issachar - Nethaneel son of Zuar.
NUM 1:9 Of the ones of Zebulun - Eliab son of Helon.
NUM 1:10 Of the sons of Joseph, of the ones of Ephraim - Elishama son of Ammihud. Of the ones of Manasseh - Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.
NUM 1:11 Of the ones of Benjamin - Abidan son of Gideoni.
NUM 1:12 Of the ones of Dan - Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.
NUM 1:13 Of the ones of Asher - Pagiel son of Ocran.
NUM 1:14 Of the ones of Gad - Eliasaph son of Reuel.
NUM 1:15 Of the ones of Naphtali - Ahira son of Enan.
NUM 1:16 These are the selected ones of the congregation, rulers of the tribes according to their patrimony; they are commanders of thousands in Israel.
NUM 1:17 And Moses and Aaron took these men, of the ones being called by name.
NUM 1:18 And all the congregation gathered on day one of the month, of the second year, and were numbered according to their origins, according to their patrimony, according to the number of their names, from twenty years old and up, every male according to their head count,
NUM 1:19 in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses. And they were numbered in the wilderness of Sinai.
NUM 1:20 And there were to the sons of Reuben, first-born of Israel, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, according to their head count, every male from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:21 the numbering of them from out of the tribe of Reuben - six and forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 1:22 To the sons of Simeon, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, according to their head count, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:23 their numbering from out of the tribe of Simeon - nine and fifty thousand and three hundred.
NUM 1:24 To the sons of Gad, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:25 their numbering from out of the tribe of Gad - five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty.
NUM 1:26 To the sons of Judah, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:27 their numbering from out of the tribe of Judah - four and seventy thousand and six hundred.
NUM 1:28 To the sons of Issachar, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:29 their numbering from out of the tribe of Issachar - four and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 1:30 To the sons of Zebulun, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:31 their numbering from out of the tribe of Zebulun - seven and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 1:32 To the sons of Joseph, the sons of Ephraim, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:33 their numbering from out of the tribe of Ephraim - forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 1:34 To the sons of Manasseh, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:35 their numbering from out of the tribe of Manasseh - two and thirty thousand and two hundred.
NUM 1:36 To the sons of Benjamin, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:37 their numbering from out of the tribe of Benjamin - five and thirty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 1:38 To the sons of Dan, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:39 their numbering from out of the tribe of Dan - two and sixty thousand and seven hundred.
NUM 1:40 To the sons of Asher, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:41 their numbering from out of the tribe of Asher - one and forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 1:42 To the sons of Naphtali, according to their kin, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, according to the number of their names, all males from twenty years and up, every one going forth in the force,
NUM 1:43 their numbering from out of the tribe of Naphtali - three and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 1:44 This is the numbering which Moses numbered, and Aaron, and the rulers of Israel - twelve men, one man according to tribe - there was one according to the tribe of the houses of their patrimony.
NUM 1:45 And came to pass all the numbering of the sons of Israel with their force, from twenty years and up, all the ones going forth to deploy in Israel -
NUM 1:46 six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
NUM 1:47 But the Levites from out of the tribes of their patrimony were not considered together among the sons of Israel.
NUM 1:48 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 1:49 Know that you shall not consider the tribe of Levi, and their number you shall not take in the midst of the sons of Israel!
NUM 1:50 And you set the Levites over the tent of the testimony, and over all the items of it, and over all as much as is in it! They shall lift the tent and all the items for it. And they shall officiate in it, and shall camp round about the tent.
NUM 1:51 And in the lifting away the tent, the Levites shall lower it. And in the pitching the tent, they shall raise it up. And the foreigner going in it - let him die!
NUM 1:52 And the sons of Israel shall camp, every man in his own order, and every man according to his own governing authority, with their force.
NUM 1:53 But the Levites - let them camp opposite round about the tent of the testimony, and there shall not be sin among the sons of Israel. And the Levites themselves shall guard the watch of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 1:54 And the sons of Israel did according to all as much as the LORD gave charge to Moses and Aaron - thus they did.
NUM 2:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
NUM 2:2 Each man being next in line according to his order, according to the signals, according to the houses of their patrimony - let the sons of Israel camp opposite round about the tent of the testimony - thus shall the sons of Israel camp.
NUM 2:3 And the ones camping first according to the east, in order, was the camp of Judah with their force. And the ruler of the sons of Judah was Nashon son of Amminadab.
NUM 2:4 Of his force the ones being numbered - four and seventy thousand and six hundred.
NUM 2:5 And the ones camping being next was the tribe of Issachar. And the ruler of the sons of Issachar was Nethaneel son of Zuar.
NUM 2:6 Of his force being numbered - four and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 2:7 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Zebulun. And the ruler of the sons of Zebulun was Eliab son of Helon.
NUM 2:8 Of his force, the ones being numbered - seven and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 2:9 All the ones being numbering from out of the camp of Judah were a hundred eighty thousand and six thousand and four hundred. With their force they shall lift away first.
NUM 2:10 The order of the camp of Reuben towards the south with their forces. And the ruler of the sons of Reuben was Elizur son of Shedeur.
NUM 2:11 Of his forces, the ones being numbered - six and forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 2:12 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Simeon. And the ruler of the sons of Simeon was Shelumiel son of Zurishadai.
NUM 2:13 Of his force, the ones being numbered - nine and fifty thousand and three hundred.
NUM 2:14 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Gad. And the ruler of the sons of Gad was Eliasaph son of Reuel.
NUM 2:15 And of his force, the ones being numbered - five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty.
NUM 2:16 All the ones being numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, with their force. And they shall lift away second.
NUM 2:17 And the tent of the testimony shall lift away and the camp of the Levites between the camps; as they pitched so also they shall lift away, each being next according to their governing.
NUM 2:18 The order of the camp of Ephraim towards the west, with their force. And the ruler of the sons of Ephraim was Elishama son of Ammihud.
NUM 2:19 Of his force, the ones being numbered - forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 2:20 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Manasseh. And the ruler of the sons of Manasseh was Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.
NUM 2:21 Of his force, the ones being numbered - two and thirty thousand and two hundred.
NUM 2:22 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Benjamin. And the ruler of the sons of Benjamin was Abidan son of Gideoni.
NUM 2:23 Of his force, the ones being numbered - five and thirty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 2:24 All the ones being numbered of the camp of Ephraim - a hundred thousand and eight thousand and a hundred - with their force they shall lift away third.
NUM 2:25 The order of the camp of Dan towards the north with their force. And the ruler of the sons of Dan was Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.
NUM 2:26 Of his force, the ones being numbered - two and sixty thousand and seven hundred.
NUM 2:27 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Asher. And the ruler of the sons of Asher was Pagiel son of Ocran.
NUM 2:28 Of his force, the ones being numbered - one and forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 2:29 And the ones camping being next to him was the tribe of Naphtali. And the ruler of the sons of Naphtali was Ahira son of Enan.
NUM 2:30 Of his force, the ones being numbered - three and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 2:31 All the ones being numbered of the camp of Dan - a hundred and fifty-seven thousand and six hundred; they shall lift away last according to their order.
NUM 2:32 This is the numbering of the sons of Israel according to the houses of their patrimony. All the numbering of the camps with their forces - six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
NUM 2:33 But the Levites were not considered with the sons of Israel; as the LORD gave charge to Moses.
NUM 2:34 And the sons of Israel did according to all what the LORD gave orders to Moses - thus they camped according to their order, and thus they lifted away each being next to the other, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony.
NUM 3:1 And these are the origins of Aaron and Moses in which day the LORD spoke to Moses on mount Sinai.
NUM 3:2 And these are the names of the sons of Aaron - first-born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
NUM 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests, the ones being anointed whom were perfected of their hands to officiate as priest.
NUM 3:4 And Nadab and Abihu came to an end before the LORD, of their offering alien fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai. And there was not children to them. And Eleazar and Ithamar officiated as priest with Aaron their father.
NUM 3:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 3:6 Take the tribe of Levi! And you shall set them before Aaron the priest, and they shall officiate to him.
NUM 3:7 And they shall guard his watches, and the watches of the sons of Israel before the tent of the testimony, to work the works of the tent.
NUM 3:8 And they shall guard all the items of the tent of the testimony, and the watches of the sons of Israel, according to all the works of the tent.
NUM 3:9 And you shall give the Levites to Aaron your brother, and to his sons - to the priests for a gift being given; these to me are from the sons of Israel.
NUM 3:10 And Aaron and his sons you shall place over the tent of the testimony, and they shall guard their priesthood. And the foreigner touching shall die.
NUM 3:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 3:12 And behold, I have taken the Levites from out of the midst of the sons of Israel, in place of every first-born male opening wide the womb of the sons of Israel - they shall be their ransoms, and the Levites will be mine.
NUM 3:13 For every first-born is mine. In which day I struck all the first-born in the land of Egypt I sanctified to myself every first-born in Israel - from man unto beast; they shall be mine. I am the LORD.
NUM 3:14 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
NUM 3:15 Number the sons of Levi according to the houses of their patrimony, according to their kin! Every male from a month and up you number them!
NUM 3:16 And Moses and Aaron numbered them because of the voice of the LORD, in which manner the LORD gave orders to them.
NUM 3:17 And these were the sons of Levi by their names - Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
NUM 3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon according to their peoples - Libni and Shimei.
NUM 3:19 And the sons of Kohath according to their peoples - Amram, and Izehar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
NUM 3:20 And the sons of Merari according to their peoples - Mahli, and Mushi. These are the peoples of the Levites according to the houses of their patrimony.
NUM 3:21 To Gershon was the people of Libni, and the people of Shemei. These are the peoples of Gershon -
NUM 3:22 their numbering according to the number of every male from a month and up in their numbering - seven thousand and five hundred.
NUM 3:23 And the sons of Gershon shall camp behind the tent towards the west.
NUM 3:24 And the ruler of the household of the family of the people of Gershon was Elisaph son of Lael.
NUM 3:25 And the watch of the sons of Gershon was in the tent of the testimony - the tent, and the covering, and the overcovering of the door of the tent of the testimony,
NUM 3:26 and the shrouds of the courtyard, and the veil of the gate of the courtyard being at the tent, and the remainder of all its works.
NUM 3:27 To Kohath was one division of people for Amram, and one division of people for Izehar, and one division of people for Hebron, and one division of people for Uzziel. These are the peoples of Kohath according to number.
NUM 3:28 Every male from a month and up - eight thousand and six hundred, guarding the watches of the holy place.
NUM 3:29 The peoples of the sons of Kohath shall camp by the side of the tent towards the south.
NUM 3:30 And the ruler of the house of the patrimony of the peoples of Kohath was Elizaphan son of Uzziel.
NUM 3:31 And their watch is the ark, and the table, and the lamp-stand, and the altars, and the items of the holy as they officiate with them, and the overcovering, and all their works.
NUM 3:32 And the ruler over the rulers of the Levites was Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, being placed to guard the watches of the holy places.
NUM 3:33 To Merari was the people Mahli, and the people Mushi. These are the peoples of Merari.
NUM 3:34 Their numbering according to the number of every male, from a month and up - six thousand and two hundred.
NUM 3:35 And the ruler of the house of the patrimony of the people of Merari was Zuriel son of Abihail. By the side of the tent they shall camp towards the north.
NUM 3:36 The numbering of the watch of the sons of Merari is the tips of the tent, and their bars, and their posts, and their bases, and all their items, and their works,
NUM 3:37 and the posts of the courtyard round about, and their bases, and their stanchions, and their ropes.
NUM 3:38 The ones camping according to the front of the tent of the testimony, from the east was Moses and Aaron and his sons, guarding the watches of the holy place, for the watches of the sons of Israel - and the foreigner approaching shall die.
NUM 3:39 All the numbering of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron numbered through the voice of the LORD, according to their peoples, every male from a month and up - two and twenty thousand.
NUM 3:40 And the LORD said to Moses, saying, Number every first-born male of the sons of Israel, from a month and up, and take their number by name!
NUM 3:41 And you shall take the Levites for me, I am the LORD, in place of all the first-born of the sons of Israel; and the cattle of the Levites in place of all the first-born among the cattle of the sons of Israel.
NUM 3:42 And Moses numbered in which manner the LORD gave charge to him - every first-born among the sons of Israel.
NUM 3:43 And were all the first-born males, by number, and by name, from a month and up, from out of their numbering - two and twenty thousand and three and seventy and two hundred.
NUM 3:44 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 3:45 Take the Levites in place of all the first-born sons of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites in place of their cattle! And the Levites will be mine - I am the LORD.
NUM 3:46 And for the ransoms of three and seventy and two hundred - the ones abounding over the Levites, from the first-born of the sons of Israel,
NUM 3:47 you shall take five shekels per head; according to the double-drachma of the holy place you shall take them; twenty oboli was the shekel.
NUM 3:48 And you shall give the money to Aaron and to his sons - the ransoms of the ones abounding to them.
NUM 3:49 And Moses took the money, the ransoms for the ones abounding for the ransoming of the Levites.
NUM 3:50 From the first-born of the sons of Israel he took the money - a thousand three hundred sixty-five shekels, according to the shekel of the holy place.
NUM 3:51 And Moses gave the money, the ransoms of the ones abounding, to Aaron and to his sons, by the voice of the LORD, in which manner the LORD gave charge to Moses.
NUM 4:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
NUM 4:2 Take the total sum of the sons of Kohath from out of the midst of the sons of Levi, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony -
NUM 4:3 from twenty and five years and up unto fifty years, every one entering to officiate to do all the works in the tent of the testimony!
NUM 4:4 And these are the works of the sons of Kohath in the tent of the testimony, a holy of the holies.
NUM 4:5 And Aaron shall enter, and his sons, whenever the camp should lift away. And they shall lower the veil overshadowing, and shall cover with it the ark of the testimony.
NUM 4:6 And they shall place upon it a skin overcovering of blue. And they shall put upon it a garment entirely of blue from above. And they shall insert the bearing poles.
NUM 4:7 And upon the table being situated for the breads, they shall put upon it a garment entirely of purple, and the saucers, and the incense pans, and the cups, and the libation bowls in which you offer a libation; and the continual breads shall be upon it.
NUM 4:8 And they shall put upon it a scarlet garment, and shall cover it with a covering made of a skin of blue, and shall insert the bearing poles in it.
NUM 4:9 And they shall take the cloak of blue, and shall cover the lamp-stand giving light, and its lamps, and its tongs, and its oil funnels, and all the receptacles for its oil, as many things as they officiate with them.
NUM 4:10 And they shall put it, and all the items for it, into a covering made of skin of blue, and shall place it upon bearing poles.
NUM 4:11 And upon the golden altar they shall place a garment of blue, and shall cover it with a covering made of a skin of blue, and shall insert the bearing poles of it.
NUM 4:12 And they shall take all the items of the ministry, as many as they officiate with them in the holy places, and shall put them into a garment of blue, and shall cover them with a covering made of a skin of blue, and shall place them upon bearing poles.
NUM 4:13 And they shall place the lid upon the altar, and shall cover over it with a garment entirely of purple.
NUM 4:14 And they shall place upon it all its items, as many as to officiate with them, and the censers, and the meat hooks, and the bowls, and the lid, and all the items of the altar. And they shall put upon it a covering made of skin of blue, and shall insert the bearing poles of it.
NUM 4:15 And Aaron and his sons shall complete covering the holy things, and all the holy items in the lifting away the camp. And after these things the sons of Kohath shall enter to lift. And they shall not touch of the holy things, that they should not die. These things the sons of Kohath shall lift in the tent of the testimony,
NUM 4:16 Eleazar son of Aaron the priest is overseer of the oil for the light, and the incense of the composition, and the sacrifice by day, and the oil for the anointing - the overseeing entirely of the tent and as much as is in it in the holy place, and in all the works.
NUM 4:17 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
NUM 4:18 Do not annihilate the tribe of the people of Kohath from out of the midst of the Levites.
NUM 4:19 But do this to them, and they shall live, and in no way shall they die in their approaching to the holy of the holies. Let Aaron and his sons enter! And they shall place themselves each in his office.
NUM 4:20 And in no way shall they enter to see suddenly the holy place - for they shall die.
NUM 4:21 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 4:22 Take the sum of the sons of Gershon, and these according to the houses of their patrimony, according to their peoples!
NUM 4:23 From five and twenty years and up unto fifty years you number them - every one entering to officiate, and to do his work in the tent of the testimony!
NUM 4:24 This is the ministration of the people of Gershon, to officiate and to lift.
NUM 4:25 And they shall lift the hide coverings of the tent, and the tent of the testimony, and its covering, and the overcovering of blue being upon it from above, and the overcovering of the door of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 4:26 And the shrouds of the courtyard, and the overcovering of the door of the courtyard, as many as are upon the tent, and upon the altar, and their extras, and all the items of their ministries. And as many as they officiate with them they shall prepare.
NUM 4:27 By the mouth of Aaron and his sons shall be the ministration of the sons of Gershon, according to all their ministrations, and according to all their works. And you shall number them by names, and all the works by them.
NUM 4:28 This is the ministration of the sons of Gershon in the tent of the testimony, and their watch by the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
NUM 4:29 The sons of Merari according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony, you number them!
NUM 4:30 From five and twenty years and up unto fifty years number them - every one entering to officiate the works of the tent of the testimony!
NUM 4:31 And these are the injunctions of the things lifted by them, according to all their works in the tent of the testimony - the tips of the tent, and its bars, and its posts, and its bases,
NUM 4:32 and the posts of the courtyard round about, and their bases, and the posts for the veil of the gate of the courtyard, and their bases, and their stanchions, and their ropes, and all their items, and all the things of their ministrations. You shall number them by names, and all the items of the watch of the things being lifted by them.
NUM 4:33 This is the ministration of the people of the sons of Merari, in all their works, in the tent of the testimony, by the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
NUM 4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the rulers of Israel numbered the sons of Kohath, according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony,
NUM 4:35 from five and twenty years and up unto fifty years, every one entering to officiate and to do the works in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 4:36 And their numbering was according to their peoples - two thousand seven hundred fifty.
NUM 4:37 This is the numbering of the people of Kohath, every one officiating in the tent of the testimony, as Moses and Aaron numbered by the voice of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
NUM 4:38 And the sons of Gershon were numbered according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony,
NUM 4:39 from five and twenty years and up unto fifty years; every one entering to officiate and to do the works in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 4:40 And their numbering was according to their peoples, according to the house of their patrimony - two thousand six hundred thirty.
NUM 4:41 This is the numbering of the people of the sons of Gershon, every one officiating in the tent of the testimony of which Moses and Aaron numbered by the voice of the LORD, by the hand of Moses.
NUM 4:42 And were numbered also the people of the sons of Merari according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony,
NUM 4:43 from five and twenty years and up unto fifty years, every one entering to officiate and to do for the works of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 4:44 And their numbering was according to their peoples, according to the houses of their patrimony - three thousand and two hundred.
NUM 4:45 This is the numbering of the people of the sons of Merari which Moses and Aaron numbered by the voice of the LORD by the hand of Moses,
NUM 4:46 all the ones being numbered of whom Moses numbered, and Aaron, and the rulers of Israel of the Levites, according to their peoples, and according to the houses of their patrimony,
NUM 4:47 from five and twenty years and up, unto fifty years - every one entering to the works of the works, and the works of the things being lifted in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 4:48 And the ones being numbered were eight thousand five hundred eighty.
NUM 4:49 By the voice of the LORD he numbered them by the hand of Moses, man for man, over their works, and over what they lifted themselves. And they were numbered in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 5:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 5:2 Assign to the sons of Israel, and let them send out from out of the camp every leper, and every one having gonorrhea, and every one unclean from a dead soul!
NUM 5:3 From male unto female you send them outside the camp, for in no way shall they defile their camp in which I occupy among them!
NUM 5:4 And the sons of Israel did thus, and sent them outside the camp; as the LORD said to Moses, thus the sons of Israel did.
NUM 5:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 5:6 Speak to the sons of Israel! saying, A man or woman, who ever should commit of all the sins of mankind, and ignoring should ignore, and that soul should trespass,
NUM 5:7 he should declare openly the sin which he did, and shall give for the trespass offering the total sum, and the fifth part of it he shall add unto it, and shall give back to whomever he trespassed against him.
NUM 5:8 But if there might not be to the man acting as next of kin, so as to give to him satisfaction for the trespass offering, let the trespass offering being given to the LORD be for the priest, besides the ram of the atonement, by which he shall atone with it for him.
NUM 5:9 And every first-fruit of all the things having been sanctified among the sons of Israel, as many as they should offer to the LORD, will be for the priest himself.
NUM 5:10 And the things of each man having been sanctified it will be his; and a man, who ever should give anything to the priest, to him it will be.
NUM 5:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 5:12 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, A man - a man if his wife should violate, and in overlooking should ignore him,
NUM 5:13 and anyone should go to bed with her in the marriage-bed of semen, and it should be unaware from the eyes of her husband, and she should hide it, and she should be defiled, and there should be no witness against her, and she should not be conceived;
NUM 5:14 and there should come upon him a spirit of jealousy, and he should be jealous of his wife, and she be defiled; or there should come upon him a spirit of jealousy and he should be jealous of his wife, and she should not be defiled;
NUM 5:15 then the man shall lead his wife to the priest, and he shall bring the gift for her, the tenth of the ephah of flour of barley - he shall not pour upon it olive oil, nor shall he place upon it frankincense; for it is a sacrifice for jealousy, a sacrifice of memorial, calling to mind sin.
NUM 5:16 And the priest shall bring her, and stand her before the LORD.
NUM 5:17 And the priest shall take clean living water in an earthenware receptacle, and some of the earth being upon the floor of the tent of the testimony; and taking it, the priest shall put it into the water.
NUM 5:18 And the priest shall stand the woman before the LORD, and he shall uncover the head of the woman, and shall give unto her hands the sacrifice of memorial, the sacrifice of jealousy; but in the hand of the priest will be the water of rebuke accursing this.
NUM 5:19 And the priest shall adjure her, and shall say to the woman, If no one has gone to bed with you, if you have not violated to be defiled being under your own husband, be innocent from this accursing by the water of rebuke!
NUM 5:20 But if being married you violated, or were defiled, and any gave of his marriage-bed with you, besides your husband;
NUM 5:21 then the priest shall bind the woman by the oaths of this imprecation. And the priest shall say to the woman, May the LORD appoint you to a curse and solemn affirmation in the midst of your people, in the LORD giving of your thigh to miscarry, and your belly to bloat;
NUM 5:22 and this accursing water shall enter into your belly to bloat pregnant, and to miscarry by your thigh. And the woman shall say, May it be. May it be.
NUM 5:23 And the priest shall write these imprecations on a scroll, and shall wipe them away in the water of the rebuke of the accursing.
NUM 5:24 And he shall give to drink to the woman the water of the rebuke of the accursing - and shall enter into her the water of the rebuke of the accursing.
NUM 5:25 And the priest shall take from out of the hand of the woman the sacrifice of jealousy, and shall place the sacrifice before the LORD, and shall bring it unto the altar.
NUM 5:26 And the priest shall grab from the sacrifice, its memorial, and shall offer it upon the altar; and after these things he will cause the woman to drink the water.
NUM 5:27 And it shall be if she should be defiled, and in forgetfulness her husband should be unaware, then shall enter into her the water of rebuke of accursing, and the belly shall bloat, and her thigh shall miscarry, and the woman will be for a curse to her people.
NUM 5:28 But if the woman should not be defiled, and should be clean, then she will be innocent, and shall produce offspring of semen.
NUM 5:29 This is the law of the jealousy in which ever a woman being married should violate and should be defiled;
NUM 5:30 or a man who ever should have a spirit of jealousy come upon him, and should be jealous of his wife; then he should stand his wife before the LORD, and the priest shall do to her all this law.
NUM 5:31 Then the man will be innocent from sin, and that woman shall take the sin on herself.
NUM 6:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 6:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, A man or woman, who ever should greatly vow a vow to purify oneself in purity to the LORD.
NUM 6:3 From wine and liquor he shall be pure; and strong drink from out of wine, and strong drink from out of liquor he shall not drink; and as many things as are manufactured from out of the grape he shall not drink; and fresh grape and dried grape he shall not eat.
NUM 6:4 All the days of his vow, from all as many things as come from the grapevine, wine, from dregs unto grape-stone, he shall not eat.
NUM 6:5 All the days of the vow of his purification a razor shall not come upon his head, until whenever the days should be fulfilled, as many as he made a vow to the LORD. He shall be holy, maintaining the lock of hair on his head.
NUM 6:6 All the days of the vow to the LORD he shall not enter unto any soul coming to an end.
NUM 6:7 Unto father and unto mother, and to brother, and to sister, he shall not be defiled by them in their dying - for his vow of God is upon him, upon his head.
NUM 6:8 All the days of his vow will be holy to the LORD.
NUM 6:9 And if anyone should die to death near him suddenly, immediately the head of his vow shall be defiled; and he shall shave his head in which day he should be cleansed - the seventh day he shall be shaved.
NUM 6:10 And the eighth day he shall bring two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, to the priest, at the doors of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 6:11 And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering, and one for a whole burnt offering; and the priest shall atone for him, for of which he sinned concerning touching the dead soul. And he shall sanctify his head in that day,
NUM 6:12 in which he was sanctified to the LORD, all the days of the vow. And he shall lead forward a lamb of a year old for a trespass offering. And the former days shall not be reckoned, for the head of his vow was defiled.
NUM 6:13 And this is the law of the making a vow. In which ever day he shall have fulfilled the days of his vow, he shall bring himself by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 6:14 And he shall lead his gift to the LORD - one unblemished he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering, and one unblemished ewe-lamb of a year old for a sin offering, and one unblemished ram for a deliverance offering;
NUM 6:15 and a bin of unleavened fine flour breads being prepared in olive oil, and unleavened pancakes being anointed in olive oil, and their sacrifice, and their libation.
NUM 6:16 And the priest shall bring them before the LORD, and shall offer the sacrifice for his sin offering, and his whole burnt offering.
NUM 6:17 And with the ram he shall make a sacrifice of deliverance offering to the LORD, with the bin of the unleavened breads. And the priest shall offer his sacrifice offering, and his libation.
NUM 6:18 And the one making a vow shall shave (by the doors of the tent of the testimony) the head of his vow, and shall place the hair upon the fire which is upon the sacrifice of the deliverance offering.
NUM 6:19 And the priest shall take the shoulder cooked from the ram, and one unleavened bread from the bin, and one unleavened pancake, and shall place them upon the hands of the one making a vow, after his shaving his head.
NUM 6:20 And the priest shall offer them as an increase offering before the LORD - it shall be a holy portion to the priest, beside the breast of the increase offering, and beside the shoulder of the separation portion offering. And after this the one making a vow shall drink wine.
NUM 6:21 This is the law of the one making a vow - who ever should make a vow to the LORD of his gift to the LORD, concerning the vow, separate from what ever his hand should find according to ability of his vow, of what ever he should have vowed according to the law of his purity.
NUM 6:22 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 6:23 Speak to Aaron and to his sons! saying, Thus you shall bless the sons of Israel, saying to them,
NUM 6:24 May The LORD bless you, and keep you.
NUM 6:25 May the LORD shine his face upon you, and show mercy on you.
NUM 6:26 May the LORD lift up his face upon you, and give you peace.
NUM 6:27 And they shall place my name upon the sons of Israel; and I will bless them.
NUM 7:1 And it came to pass in the day in which Moses completed so as to raise up the tent, and anointed it, and sanctified it, and all the items of it, and the altar, and all the items of it, and had anointed them, and sanctified them,
NUM 7:2 that the rulers of Israel brought gifts, rulers of the houses of their patrimony, (these are the rulers of the tribes, these are the ones standing by the overseeing;)
NUM 7:3 even brought their gifts before the LORD; six wagons covered, and twelve oxen; a wagon for two rulers, and a calf from each. And they brought them before the tent.
NUM 7:4 And the LORD said to Moses, saying,
NUM 7:5 Take from them, and they will be for the works of the ministry of the tent of the testimony! And you shall give them to the Levites, each according to his ministration.
NUM 7:6 And Moses taking the wagons and the oxen, gave them to the Levites.
NUM 7:7 The two wagons, and the four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, for their ministrations.
NUM 7:8 And the four wagons and the eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, for their ministrations, by Ithamar son of Aaron the priest.
NUM 7:9 And to the sons of Kohath he gave not, for they have the ministrations of the holy things - they shall lift them upon their shoulders.
NUM 7:10 And the rulers brought gifts for the dedication of the altar in the day in which he anointed it. And the rulers brought their gifts before the altar.
NUM 7:11 And the LORD said to Moses, One ruler per day - a ruler per day shall bring his gift for the dedication of the altar.
NUM 7:12 And was the one bringing on the first day of his gift Nahshon son of Amminadab, ruler of the tribe of Judah.
NUM 7:13 And he brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:14 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:15 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:16 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:17 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Nahshon son of Amminadab.
NUM 7:18 The second day Nethaneel son of Zuar the ruler of the tribe of Issachar brought.
NUM 7:19 And he brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:20 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:21 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:22 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:23 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Nethaneel son of Zuar.
NUM 7:24 The third day the ruler of the sons of Zebulun, Eliab son of Helon
NUM 7:25 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:26 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:27 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:28 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:29 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Eliab son of Helon.
NUM 7:30 The fourth day the ruler of the sons of Reuben, Elizur son of Shedeur
NUM 7:31 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight; one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:32 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:33 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:34 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:35 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Elizur son of Shedeur.
NUM 7:36 The fifth day the ruler of the sons of Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai
NUM 7:37 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:38 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:39 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:40 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:41 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
NUM 7:42 The sixth day the ruler of the sons of Gad, Eliasaph son of Reuel
NUM 7:43 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:44 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:45 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:46 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:47 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Eliasaph son of Reuel.
NUM 7:48 The seventh day the ruler of the sons of Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud
NUM 7:49 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:50 one incense pan, ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:51 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:52 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:53 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Elishama son of Ammihud.
NUM 7:54 The eighth day the ruler of the sons of Manasseh, Gamaliel son of Pedahzur
NUM 7:55 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:56 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:57 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:58 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:59 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.
NUM 7:60 The ninth day the ruler of the sons of Benjamin, Abidan son of Gideoni
NUM 7:61 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:62 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:63 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:64 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:65 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Abidan son of Gideoni.
NUM 7:66 The tenth day the ruler of the sons of Dan, Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai
NUM 7:67 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:68 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:69 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:70 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:71 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.
NUM 7:72 The eleventh day the ruler of the sons of Asher, Pagiel son of Ocran
NUM 7:73 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:74 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:75 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:76 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:77 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Pagiel son Ocran.
NUM 7:78 The twelfth day the ruler of the sons of Naphtali, Ahira son of Enan
NUM 7:79 brought his gift - one silver saucer, thirty and a hundred was its scale-weight, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both full of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering;
NUM 7:80 one incense pan of ten weights of gold, full of incense;
NUM 7:81 one calf from out of the oxen, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering;
NUM 7:82 and one winter yearling from the goats for a sin offering;
NUM 7:83 and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old - this is the gift of Ahira son of Enan.
NUM 7:84 This is the dedication of the altar in which day he anointed it, by the rulers of the sons of Israel - twelve silver saucers, twelve silver bowls, twelve gold incense pans,
NUM 7:85 thirty and a hundred shekels to the one saucer, and seventy shekels to the one bowl; all the silver of the items two thousand and four hundred shekels, the shekels according to the holy shekel.
NUM 7:86 Twelve gold incense pans, full of incense; all the gold of the incense pans - twenty and a hundred weights of gold.
NUM 7:87 All the livestock for the whole burnt offering - twelve calves, twelve rams, twelve he-lambs of a year old, and their sacrifices, and their libations, and twelve winter yearlings from the goats for a sin offering.
NUM 7:88 All the livestock for a sacrifice of deliverance offering; twenty-four heifers, sixty rams, sixty he-goats, sixty unblemished ewe-lambs of a year old. This is the dedication of the altar after his anointing.
NUM 7:89 In Moses' entering into the tent of the testimony to speak to him, he heard the voice of the LORD speaking to him from above the atonement-seat, which is upon the ark of the testimony, between the two cherubim - and he spoke to him.
NUM 8:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 8:2 Speak to Aaron! And you shall say to him, Whenever you should place the lamps by rank, the seven lamps shall give light in front of the lamp-stand.
NUM 8:3 And Aaron did so - in front of the lamp-stand he lit up its lamps as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 8:4 And this is the apparatus of the lamp-stand - its stem is solid gold, and its lilies are solid entirely, according to the form which the LORD showed Moses - thus he made the lamp-stand.
NUM 8:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 8:6 Take the Levites from out of the midst of the sons of Israel, and you shall purify them.
NUM 8:7 And thus you shall do to them for their purification - you shall sprinkle about them water of purification, and a razor shall come upon the whole of their body, and you shall wash their garments, and they shall be clean.
NUM 8:8 And they shall take one calf from out of the oxen, and of this a sacrifice offering of fine flour being prepared in olive oil. And a calf of a year old from out of the oxen you shall take for a sin offering.
NUM 8:9 And you shall lead forward the Levites before the tent of the testimony. And you shall bring together all the congregation of the sons of Israel.
NUM 8:10 And you shall lead forward the Levites before the LORD; and the sons of Israel shall place their hands upon the Levites.
NUM 8:11 And Aaron shall separate the Levites for a render before the LORD from the sons of Israel. And they shall be so as to work the works of the LORD.
NUM 8:12 And the Levites shall place the hands upon the heads of the calves. And you shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the one for a whole burnt offering to the LORD to atone for them.
NUM 8:13 And you shall stand the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and shall render them as a render to the LORD.
NUM 8:14 And you shall draw apart the Levites from out of the midst of the sons of Israel, and they shall be mine.
NUM 8:15 And after these things the Levites shall enter to work the works of the tent of the testimony. And you shall cleanse them, and render them before the LORD.
NUM 8:16 For as a render these are being rendered to me. They are from out of the midst of the sons of Israel, in place of the ones opening wide every womb of all first-born of the sons of Israel - I have taken them to myself.
NUM 8:17 For every first-born among the sons of Israel is mine, from man unto beast; in which day I struck every first-born in the land of Egypt, I sanctified them to myself.
NUM 8:18 And I took the Levites instead of every first-born among the sons of Israel.
NUM 8:19 And I gave back the Levites as a render, rendering Aaron and to his sons from out of the midst of the sons of Israel, to work the works of the sons of Israel in the tent of the testimony, and to atone for the sons of Israel, that a calamity shall not be among the sons of Israel whenever drawing near to the holy things.
NUM 8:20 And Moses and Aaron did, and all the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the Levites as the LORD gave charge to Moses concerning the Levites - thus the sons of Israel did to them.
NUM 8:21 And the Levites purified themselves, and washed their garments; and Aaron rendered them as a render before the LORD; and Aaron made atonement for them to purify them.
NUM 8:22 And after these things the Levites entered to officiate their ministration in the tent of the testimony before Aaron, and before his sons - as the LORD gave orders to Moses for the Levite, so they did to them.
NUM 8:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 8:24 This is the thing for the Levites from five and twenty years and up - they shall enter to minister a ministration in works in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 8:25 And from fifty years old he shall leave from the ministration, and shall not work any longer.
NUM 8:26 And he shall officiate with his brethren in the tent of the testimony, to guard the watches; but he shall not work the works - so shall you do to the Levites in their watches.
NUM 9:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the second year of their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt, in the first month, saying,
NUM 9:2 Speak! saying, And let the sons of Israel prepare the passover according to its season!
NUM 9:3 On the fourteenth day of the first month towards evening you shall observe it - according to its time, according to its law. And according to the interpretation given for it you shall observe it.
NUM 9:4 And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel to observe the passover,
NUM 9:5 commencing on the fourteenth day of the month in the wilderness of Sinai. As the LORD gave orders to Moses, thus the sons of Israel did.
NUM 9:6 And men came who were unclean by reason of touching a dead soul of a man, and they were not able to observe the passover in that day. And they came forward before Moses and Aaron on that day.
NUM 9:7 And those men said to them, We are unclean by reason of the dead soul of a man - are we then lacking so as to bring the gift to the LORD according to its time in the midst of the sons of Israel?
NUM 9:8 And Moses said to them, Stand yourself, and I will hear what the LORD gives charge concerning you.
NUM 9:9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 9:10 Speak to the sons of Israel! saying, A man - a man who ever becomes unclean by reason of a dead soul of a man, or on a journey far from you, even among your generations, shall observe the passover to the LORD.
NUM 9:11 In the second month on the fourteenth day towards evening they shall prepare it; upon unleavened breads and bitter herbs they shall eat it.
NUM 9:12 They shall not leave behind any of him into the morning, and they shall not break a bone of his. According to the law of the passover they shall observe it.
NUM 9:13 And a man who ever might be clean, and is not on a journey far away, and should lack to observe the passovers, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from out of its people, because the gift to the LORD he offered not according to its time; that man shall take his sin.
NUM 9:14 But if a foreigner should come forward to you in your land, and would observe the passover to the LORD, then according to the law of the passover, and according to its arrangement, thus he shall observe it - there will be one law to you, both to the foreigner, and to the native born of the land.
NUM 9:15 And in the day which the tent was set up the cloud covered the tent - the house of the testimony. And in the evening there was upon the tent as a form of fire until morning.
NUM 9:16 So it was always - the cloud covered it by day, and the form of fire by the night.
NUM 9:17 And when the cloud ascended from the tent, then after this the sons of Israel departed. And in the place where ever the cloud stopped, there the sons of Israel camped.
NUM 9:18 By order of the LORD the sons of Israel shall camp, and by order of the LORD they shall depart. All the days in which the cloud shadows over the tent, the sons of Israel shall camp.
NUM 9:19 And whenever the cloud should be dragged upon the tent for many days, that the sons of Israel shall guard the watch of the LORD, and in no way shall they lift away.
NUM 9:20 And it shall be whenever the cloud should become a number of days upon the tent; by the voice of the LORD they shall camp, and by order of the LORD they shall depart.
NUM 9:21 And it shall be whenever the cloud should be present from evening until morning, and the cloud should ascend in the morning, then they shall depart by day or night,
NUM 9:22 or when being more than a month of days of the cloud shadowing upon it, the sons of Israel shall camp, and in no way shall they depart.
NUM 9:23 For by order of the LORD they shall depart - they guarded the watch of the LORD, by order of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
NUM 10:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 10:2 Make to yourself two trumpets of silver! A hammered work you shall make them, and they will be to you to call the congregation, and to lift away the camps.
NUM 10:3 And you shall trump with them, and bring together all the congregation unto the door of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 10:4 But if they should trump with one sound, then shall come forward to you all the rulers of the heads of Israel.
NUM 10:5 And you shall trump a signal - and the camps camping according to the east shall lift away.
NUM 10:6 And you shall trump for a signal a second time - and the camps camping according to the south shall lift away. And you shall trump a third signal - and the camps camping by the west shall lift away. And you shall trump a fourth signal - and the camps camping towards the north shall lift away. You shall trump a signal at their departure.
NUM 10:7 And whenever you should bring together the congregation, you shall trump, but not a signal.
NUM 10:8 And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall trump with the trumpets; and it will be to you an eternal law unto your generations.
NUM 10:9 But if you should go forth to war in your land against the opponents opposing you, then you shall signify with the trumpets; and you will be called to mind before the LORD your God, and you shall be preserved from your enemies.
NUM 10:10 And in the days of your gladness, and in your holidays, and in your new moons, you shall trump with the trumpets at the whole burnt offerings, and at the sacrifices of your deliverance offerings. And it shall be to you for a remembrance before your God - I am the LORD your God.
NUM 10:11 And it came to pass in the second year, in the second month, the twentieth of the month, the cloud ascended from the tent of the testimony.
NUM 10:12 And the sons of Israel lifted away with their chattel in the wilderness of Sinai. And the cloud stopped in the wilderness of Paran.
NUM 10:13 And the first ranks lifted away by the voice of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
NUM 10:14 And they lifted away in order, the camp of the sons of Judah first with their force. And over their force was Nahshon son of Amminadab.
NUM 10:15 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Issachar was Nethaneel son of Zuar.
NUM 10:16 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun was Eliab son of Helon.
NUM 10:17 And they shall lower the tent, and the sons of Gershon shall lift away, and the sons of Merari carrying the tent.
NUM 10:18 And the camp of Reuben lifted away in order with their force. And over their force was Elizur son of Shedeur.
NUM 10:19 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Simeon was Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
NUM 10:20 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
NUM 10:21 And the sons of Kohath shall lift away carrying the holy things. And they shall set up the tent until when they should arrive.
NUM 10:22 And the camp of Ephraim shall lift away in order with their force. And over his force was Elishama son of Ammihud.
NUM 10:23 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
NUM 10:24 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
NUM 10:25 And the camp of the sons of Dan shall lift away in order last of all the camps with their force. And over their force was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
NUM 10:26 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Asher was Pagiel son of Ocran.
NUM 10:27 And over the force of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali was Ahira son of Enan.
NUM 10:28 These are the militaries of the sons of Israel. And they lifted away with their force.
NUM 10:29 And Moses said to Hobab, son of Raguel the Midianite, father-in-law of Moses, We are lifting away unto the place which the LORD said, This I will give to you. Come with us, and we will do good for you; for the LORD spoke good concerning Israel.
NUM 10:30 And he said to him, I shall not go; but unto my land, and unto my family I will go.
NUM 10:31 And he said, You should not abandon us, because you were with us in the wilderness, and you will be among us as an ambassador.
NUM 10:32 And it shall be if you should go with us, that it shall be the good things that whatever as many as the LORD shall do good for us, also we shall do good for you.
NUM 10:33 And they lifted away from out of the mountain of the LORD a journey of three days. And the ark of covenant of the LORD went forth in front of them, a journey of three days, to survey themselves a rest.
NUM 10:34 And the cloud of the LORD came to pass shadowing over them by day in their lifting away from out of the camp.
NUM 10:35 And it came to pass in the lifting away the ark, that Moses said, Awaken, O LORD, and let your enemies be dispersed, and let all the ones detesting you flee!
NUM 10:36 And in the resting, he said, Turn, O LORD, thousands of myriads in Israel!
NUM 11:1 And the people were grumbling wickedly before the LORD. And the LORD heard, and he became enraged in anger; and there burned among them a fire by the LORD, and it devoured a certain part of the camp.
NUM 11:2 And the people cried out to Moses. And Moses made a vow to the LORD, and the fire abated.
NUM 11:3 And he called the name of that place, Combustion, for fire by the LORD burned among them.
NUM 11:4 And the intermixed people among them desired with a great desire. And being seated, they wept along with the sons of Israel, and said, Who will feed us meats?
NUM 11:5 We remember the fishes, which we ate in Egypt without charge, and the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlics.
NUM 11:6 But now our soul is dried up - there is nothing except for the manna to our eyes.
NUM 11:7 And the manna is as seed of coriander, and the appearance of it is the appearance of ice.
NUM 11:8 And the people traveled around, and collected together, and ground it with the millstone, and ground it with the hand mill, and boiled it in the earthen pot, and made it into a cake baked in hot ashes. And the satisfaction of it was as the taste of pastry made from olive oil.
NUM 11:9 And whenever the dew came down upon the camp at night, the manna came down upon it.
NUM 11:10 And Moses heard their weeping, according to their peoples, each at his door. And the LORD was enraged in anger exceedingly. And before Moses it was wicked.
NUM 11:11 And Moses said to the LORD, Why do you afflict your attendant? And why have I not found favor before you to place the thrust of this people upon me?
NUM 11:12 Have I conceived in the womb all this people, or have I given birth to them that you say to me, Take them into your bosom, as a wet-nurse lifts the one being nursed, unto the land which you swore by an oath to their fathers?
NUM 11:13 From what place is it to me to give meats to all this people? For they weep upon me, saying, Give to us meats that we may eat!
NUM 11:14 I shall not be able alone to bring this people, for this matter is heavy for me.
NUM 11:15 But if so you do to me, kill me with my removal, if I have found favor with you, that I should not see my ill-treatment.
NUM 11:16 And the LORD said to Moses, Bring together to me seventy men from the elders of Israel, whom you yourself know! These are elders of the people, and their scribes. And you shall lead them to the tent of the testimony, and they shall stand there with you.
NUM 11:17 And I shall go down and speak there with you. And I will remove of the spirit upon you, and I will place it upon them, and they shall aid with you the thrust of the people; and you shall not bring them alone.
NUM 11:18 And to the people you shall say, Purify yourselves for tomorrow! And you shall eat meats, for you wept before the LORD, saying, Who shall feed us meats? for it was good to us being in Egypt. And the LORD shall give to you meats, and you shall eat.
NUM 11:19 You shall not eat for one day, nor two, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days,
NUM 11:20 you shall eat for a month of days, until whenever it should come forth from out of your nostrils; and it shall be to you for a cholera, that you resisted the LORD who is among you, and you wept before him, saying, What did we do to come out of Egypt?
NUM 11:21 And Moses said, Six hundred thousand footmen are the people in which I am among them. And you said, I will give to them meats, and they shall eat for a month of days.
NUM 11:22 Shall sheep and oxen be slain for them, and will it suffice to them? Or shall all the fish of the sea be brought to them, and will it suffice to them?
NUM 11:23 And the LORD said to Moses, Shall the hand of the LORD not be enough? Already you shall know if my word shall overtake you or not.
NUM 11:24 And Moses came forth, and he spoke to the people the sayings of the LORD. And he brought together seventy men from the elders of the people, and stood them round about the tent.
NUM 11:25 And the LORD came down in a cloud, and he spoke to him, and he lifted from the spirit upon him, and placed it upon the seventy men of the elders. And as spirit rested upon them, that they prophesied, and no longer proceeded.
NUM 11:26 And were left behind two men in the camp. The name to the one was Eldad, and the name of the second was Medad. And the spirit rested upon them, and these were of the ones delineated, and came not to the tent. And they prophesied in the camp.
NUM 11:27 And a young man ran up to report to Moses, and said, saying, Eldad and Medad prophesy in the camp.
NUM 11:28 And answering, Joshua the son of Nun, the one standing beside Moses, his chosen one, said, O my master Moses, restrain them!
NUM 11:29 And Moses said to him, Are you zealous for me? and, O how it would be given all the people of the LORD were prophets, whenever the LORD should put his spirit upon them.
NUM 11:30 And Moses went forth into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
NUM 11:31 And a wind went forth from the LORD, and carried over mother-quail from the sea, and it put them upon the camp, a days journey here on this side, and a days journey here on that side, round about the camp, about two cubits from the earth.
NUM 11:32 And the people rose up that entire day, and the entire night, and the entire next day, and gathered together the mother-quail - the one gathering a few was ten cors. And they cooled themselves in a time of refreshing round about the camp.
NUM 11:33 The meats still was in their teeth before the dissipating, and the LORD was enraged in wrath at the people. And the LORD struck the people an exceedingly great calamity.
NUM 11:34 And the name of that place was called, Tombs of Desire. For there they entombed the craving people.
NUM 11:35 From Tombs of the Desire the people lifted away unto Hazeroth; and the people existed in Hazeroth.
NUM 12:1 And Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Ethiopian wife whom Moses took - for he took an Ethiopian woman.
NUM 12:2 And they said, Has the LORD spoken only to Moses? Did he not also speak to us? And the LORD heard.
NUM 12:3 And the man Moses was exceedingly gentle above all the men being upon the earth.
NUM 12:4 And the LORD said immediately to Moses, and Aaron, and Miriam, Come forth you the three into the tent of the testimony!
NUM 12:5 And came forth the three into the tent of the testimony. And the LORD came down in a column of cloud, and it stood at the door of the tent of the testimony. And Aaron and Miriam were called; and both came forth.
NUM 12:6 And he said to them, Hear my words. If there should be a prophet among you to the LORD, I will be made known to him in a vision, and in sleep will speak to him.
NUM 12:7 Not so my attendant Moses; he is trustworthy in my entire house.
NUM 12:8 Mouth to mouth I will speak to him in sight, and not through enigmas; even he saw the glory of the LORD. And why were you not afraid to speak ill against my attendant Moses?
NUM 12:9 And anger of rage of the LORD was upon them; and they went forth.
NUM 12:10 And the cloud left from the tent; and behold, Miriam became leprous as snow. And Aaron looked upon Miriam, and behold, she was leprous.
NUM 12:11 And Aaron said to Moses, I beseech you, O my master, you should not join sin to us, for we knew not that we sinned.
NUM 12:12 Do not let her become as equal to death, as a miscarriage going forth from out of a womb of his mother, and it eats up half of her flesh.
NUM 12:13 And Moses yelled out to the LORD, saying, O God, I beseech you to heal her.
NUM 12:14 And the LORD said to Moses, If her father in spitting, spat into her face, would she not feel shame? Seven days she shall be separated outside the camp, and after this she shall enter.
NUM 12:15 And Miriam was separated outside the camp seven days. And the people did not lift away until Miriam was cleansed.
NUM 12:16 And after these things the people lifted away from Hazeroth, and camped in the wilderness of Paran.
NUM 13:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 13:2 Send for yourself men, and let them survey the land of the Canaanites, which I give to the sons of Israel for a possession! One man per tribe - according to the peoples of their patrimony you shall send them, all being chiefs of them.
NUM 13:3 And Moses sent them from out of the wilderness of Paran, by the voice of the LORD. All these men were chiefs of the sons of Israel.
NUM 13:4 And these are their names. Of the tribe of Reuben was Shammua son of Zaccur.
NUM 13:5 Of the tribe of Simeon was Shaphat son of Hori.
NUM 13:6 Of the tribe of Judah was Caleb son of Jephunneh.
NUM 13:7 Of the tribe of Issachar was Igal son of Joseph.
NUM 13:8 Of the tribe of Ephraim was Oshea son of Nun.
NUM 13:9 Of the tribe of Benjamin was Palti son of Raphu.
NUM 13:10 Of the tribe of Zebulun was Gaddiel son of Sodi.
NUM 13:11 Of the tribe of Joseph of the sons of Manasseh was Gaddi son of Susi.
NUM 13:12 Of the tribe of Dan was Ammiel son of Gemalli.
NUM 13:13 Of the tribe of Asher was Sethur son of Michael.
NUM 13:14 Of the tribe of Naphtali was Nahbi son of Vophsi.
NUM 13:15 Of the tribe of Gad was Geuel son of Machi.
NUM 13:16 These are the names of the men which Moses sent to survey the land. And Moses named Oshea son of Nun - Joshua.
NUM 13:17 And Moses sent them to survey the land of Canaan, and said to them, Ascend in this wilderness! And you shall ascend into the mountain.
NUM 13:18 And you will behold the land, what it is, and the people lying in wait upon it, if they are strong or weak, or if they are few or many;
NUM 13:19 and what the land is like in which these lie in wait upon it, if it is good or wicked; and what the cities in which these dwell in them, if in walled or in unwalled;
NUM 13:20 and what the land is like, if plentiful or being neglected; if there is in it trees or not. And attending to constantly you shall take from the fruits of the land. And the days were days in spring, forerunners of the grape.
NUM 13:21 And ascending, they surveyed the land from the wilderness of Zin until Rehob, entering Hamath.
NUM 13:22 And they ascended by the wilderness, and came unto Hebron. And there was Ahiman, and Sheshai, and Talmai, the families of Anak. (And Hebron was built seven years before Tanin of Egypt.)
NUM 13:23 And they came unto the Ravine of the Cluster, and beat from there a vine branch and one cluster of the grape from it. And they lifted it upon bearing poles; even from the pomegranates, and from the fig-trees.
NUM 13:24 And that place they named Ravine of the Cluster, on account of the cluster of grapes which the sons of Israel beat from there.
NUM 13:25 And they returned from there after surveying the land forty days.
NUM 13:26 And having gone, they came to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran Kadesh. And they answered to them a word, and to all the congregation, and showed the fruit of the land.
NUM 13:27 And they described to him, and said, We came into the land unto which you sent us, a land flowing milk and honey. And this is its fruit.
NUM 13:28 Only that the nation dwelling the land is bold, and the cities fortified, being walled, and great - very much so. And the generation of Anak we saw there.
NUM 13:29 And Amalek dwells in the land to the south. And the Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite dwell in the mountainous area. And the Canaanite dwells by the sea, and by the Jordan river.
NUM 13:30 And Caleb quelled the people before Moses, and said to him, Not so, but ascending we will ascend, and we shall inherit it; for by might we shall be able to prevail against them.
NUM 13:31 And the men going up with him said, We ascend not; for in no way should we be able to ascend to that nation, for it is stronger rather than us.
NUM 13:32 And they brought an astonishment of the land of which they surveyed it to the sons of Israel, saying, The land which we went in it to survey - it is a land devouring the ones dwelling upon it; and all the people whom we see in it are exceedingly tall men.
NUM 13:33 And there we saw the giants. And we were as locusts in the presence of them - yes, even so we were in the presence of them.
NUM 14:1 And taking up, all the congregation gave a sound, and the people wept that entire night.
NUM 14:2 And they complained over Moses and Aaron - all the sons of Israel. And all the congregation said to them, Ought that we died in the land of Egypt, than we died in this wilderness.
NUM 14:3 And why did the LORD bring us into this land to fall in war? Our wives and children will be for ravaging. Now then, it is best for us to return to Egypt.
NUM 14:4 And the other said to the other, We should appoint a chief, and should return unto Egypt.
NUM 14:5 And Moses and Aaron fell upon their face before all the congregation of the sons of Israel.
NUM 14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, of the ones surveying the land, tore their cloaks.
NUM 14:7 And they said to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying, The land which we surveyed it, is good exceedingly exceedingly.
NUM 14:8 If the LORD selected us, he will bring us into this land, and will give it to us - a land which is flowing milk and honey.
NUM 14:9 But from the LORD do not become defectors. And you all, fear not the people of the land, for it is a thing devoured to us. For the time has left from them, and the LORD is among us; do not fear them!
NUM 14:10 And all the congregation said to stone them with stones. And the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud upon the tent of the testimony among all the sons of Israel.
NUM 14:11 And the LORD said to Moses, For how long does this people provoke me? And for how long do they not trust me, for all the signs which I did among them?
NUM 14:12 I will strike them in death, and I will destroy them, and I will make you into a great and populous nation rather than this one.
NUM 14:13 And Moses said to the LORD, And Egypt shall hear that you led this people by your strength from them,
NUM 14:14 but also all the ones dwelling upon this land have heard that you are the LORD among this people, who eyes to eyes you behold, O LORD, and your cloud stands over them, and in a column of cloud you go in front of them by the day, and in a column of fire by the night.
NUM 14:15 And shall you obliterate this people as one man? And the nations shall say, as many as heard your name, saying,
NUM 14:16 Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land, which he swore by an oath to them, he prostrated them in the wilderness.
NUM 14:17 And now, raise up high your strength, O LORD, in which manner you said, saying,
NUM 14:18 The LORD is lenient, and full of mercy, and true, removing lawless deeds, and iniquities, and sins; but by cleansing he shall not cleanse the liable, repaying the sins of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation.
NUM 14:19 Dismiss the sin of this people according to your great mercy, just as kindness happened to them from Egypt until the present.
NUM 14:20 And the LORD said, I am kind to them according to your word.
NUM 14:21 But as I live, that the glory of the LORD will fill all the earth,
NUM 14:22 that all the men seeing my glory, and the signs which I did in Egypt, and in this wilderness, and test me this tenth time, and are not listening to my voice,
NUM 14:23 assuredly they shall not see the land which I swore by an oath to their fathers; but only their children who are with me here, as many as have not known good or evil. Every young one inexperienced, to these I will give the land, but all the ones provoking me shall not see it.
NUM 14:24 But my servant Caleb, for another spirit is in him, and he followed after me - I will bring him into the land into which you enter there, and his seed shall inherit it.
NUM 14:25 But Amalek and the Canaanites dwell in the valley. Tomorrow you should turn and depart into the wilderness way of the red sea.
NUM 14:26 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, saying,
NUM 14:27 For how long shall I endure this wicked congregation, in which they grumble before me? The grumbling of the sons of Israel, which they grumble concerning you, I have heard.
NUM 14:28 Say to them, As I live, says the LORD, assuredly in which manner you spoke into my ears, so I will do to you.
NUM 14:29 In this wilderness your carcasses shall fall, even all overseeing you, and the ones being counted of you from twenty years old and up, as many as grumbled against me.
NUM 14:30 Shall you enter into the land upon which I stretched out my hand to encamp you upon it? But only Caleb, son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
NUM 14:31 And the children, who you said to be for ravaging, I will bring them into the land which you abstained from it.
NUM 14:32 And your carcasses will fall in this wilderness.
NUM 14:33 But your sons will be fed in the wilderness forty years. And they shall bear your harlotry, until whenever your carcasses should be consumed in the wilderness.
NUM 14:34 According to the number of the days, as many as you surveyed the land - forty days; a day for the year you will take for your sins - forty years, and you shall know the rage of my anger.
NUM 14:35 I the LORD spoke, assuredly thus I will do to this wicked congregation rising up together against me. In this wilderness they shall be completely consumed, and there they shall die.
NUM 14:36 And the men of whom Moses sent to survey the land, and coming, complained concerning this to the congregation, to bring forth bad words concerning the land,
NUM 14:37 even they died - the men avowing bad things concerning the land in the calamity before the LORD.
NUM 14:38 And Joshua son of Nun, and Caleb son of Jephunneh, lived of those men going to survey the land.
NUM 14:39 And Moses spoke these words to all the sons of Israel - and the people mourned exceedingly.
NUM 14:40 And rising early in the morning, they ascended into the top of the mountain, saying, Behold, we shall ascend unto the place which the LORD spoke, for we sinned.
NUM 14:41 And Moses said, Why do you violate the word of the LORD? it shall not be prosperous to you.
NUM 14:42 Do not ascend, for the LORD is not with you! And you shall fall before the face of your enemies.
NUM 14:43 For Amalek and the Canaanite are there in front of you, and you shall fall by the sword, because you were turned resisting the persuasion by the LORD, and the LORD will not be with you.
NUM 14:44 And forcing through, they ascended upon the top of the mountain. But the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, did not move from out of the midst of the camp.
NUM 14:45 And the Amalekite came down, and the Canaanite lying in wait in that mountain, and routed them, and slew them unto Hormah.
NUM 15:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 15:2 Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, Whenever you should enter into the land of your dwelling, which I give to you,
NUM 15:3 and you shall offer yield offerings to the LORD, or a whole burnt offering, or a sacrifice offering to magnify a vow, or concerning a voluntary offering, or in your holiday feasts, you shall offer a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD, either from the oxen, or from the sheep.
NUM 15:4 And the one offering shall bring his gift to the LORD being a sacrifice of fine flour - the tenth of the ephah, being prepared in olive oil, in a fourth of the hin.
NUM 15:5 And wine for a libation - the fourth of the hin, you shall offer upon the whole burnt offering, or upon the sacrifice offering to the one lamb.
NUM 15:6 And for the ram, whenever you offer it for a whole burnt offering or for a sacrifice offering, you shall prepare a sacrifice of fine flour - two tenths being prepared in olive oil, the third of the hin.
NUM 15:7 And wine for a libation - the third of the hin, you shall offer for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 15:8 But if from the oxen you should offer for a whole burnt offering, or for a sacrifice offering to magnify a vow, or for a deliverance offering to the LORD,
NUM 15:9 then he shall bring with the calf for a sacrifice offering of fine flour, three tenths, being prepared in olive oil - a half of the hin,
NUM 15:10 and the wine for a libation, the half of the hin - a yield offering scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 15:11 Thus you shall offer for the one calf, or the one ram, or the one lamb from out of the sheep, or a kid of the goats.
NUM 15:12 According to the number which ever you should offer, so you shall do to the one, according to their number.
NUM 15:13 Every native born shall offer thus, such as to bring yield offerings for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 15:14 And if a foreigner among you should unite in your land, or who ever was born to you among your generations, and he shall offer a yield offering scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD, in which manner you do yourselves - so shall the congregation offer to the LORD.
NUM 15:15 One law will be to you, and to the foreigners lying near to you - an eternal law unto your generations. As you, also the foreigner will be before the LORD.
NUM 15:16 There shall be one law, and there shall be one ordinance to you, and to the foreigner lying near to you.
NUM 15:17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 15:18 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, In your entering into the land into which I bring you there,
NUM 15:19 that it will be whenever you yourselves should eat from the breads of the land, you shall remove a separation portion as a separation offering to the LORD, a first-fruit of your batch of dough.
NUM 15:20 You shall separate bread as a separation portion to him. As a separation portion from the threshing-floor, thus shall you remove it.
NUM 15:21 As first-fruit of your batch, even you shall give it to the LORD as a separation portion for your generations.
NUM 15:22 And whenever you should miss entirely, and should not observe all these commandments which the LORD spoke to Moses,
NUM 15:23 as the LORD gave orders for you by the hand of Moses, from the day of which the LORD gave orders to you, and beyond unto your generations;
NUM 15:24 that it shall be if from the eyes of the congregation it should happen unintentionally, then all the congregation shall offer one calf from out of the oxen, unblemished, for a whole burnt offering, for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD, and this sacrifice offering, and its libation, according to its arrangement, and one winter yearling from out of the goats for a sin offering,
NUM 15:25 and the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them, for it is unintentional. And they brought their gift, a yield offering to the LORD for their sins, before the LORD, for their unintentional sins.
NUM 15:26 And it shall be forgiven to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and to the foreigner lying near to you - for to all the people it is unintentional.
NUM 15:27 And if one soul should sin unintentionally, he shall lead forward one goat of a year old for a sin offering.
NUM 15:28 And the priest shall atone for the soul of the one acting unintentionally, and sinning unintentionally before the LORD, to atone for him, and to forgive him.
NUM 15:29 To the native inhabitant among the sons of Israel, and to the foreigner lying near to them, there shall be one law to them - who ever should do it unintentionally.
NUM 15:30 And the soul who shall do a thing by hand through pride, of the native born or of the foreigners, this one provokes God, and that soul shall be utterly destroyed from out of its people.
NUM 15:31 For the word of the LORD he treated as worthless, and his commandments he effaced. By obliteration that soul shall be obliterated - his sin be on him.
NUM 15:32 And the sons of Israel were in the wilderness, and found a man collecting together wood on the day of the sabbath.
NUM 15:33 And the ones finding him collecting wood led him forward to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation of the sons of Israel.
NUM 15:34 And they put him under guard, for they did not interpret what they should do to him.
NUM 15:35 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, Unto death put to death the man! You shall stone him with stones - all the congregation outside the camp.
NUM 15:36 And all the congregation led him outside the camp. And they stoned him, as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 15:37 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 15:38 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, Even let them make for themselves decorative hems upon the borders of their cloaks throughout their generations. And you shall place upon the decorative hems of the borders a yarn of blue.
NUM 15:39 And it will be to you in the decorative hems, that as you shall see them, then all the commandments of the LORD shall be remembered. And you shall do them, and you shall not turn aside after your own considerations, and after your eyes, in which you fornicate after them;
NUM 15:40 so that you should remember, and you should do all my commandments, and you shall be holy to your God.
NUM 15:41 I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, to be your God - I am the LORD your God.
NUM 16:1 And Korah spoke, the son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab, and On, son of Peleth, son of Reuben.
NUM 16:2 And they rose up before Moses, and men of the sons of Israel - fifty and two hundred chiefs of the congregation - summoned counselors, and famous men.
NUM 16:3 They stood together against Moses and Aaron, and said to them, Let this suffice to you, seeing that all the congregation are all holy - and the LORD is among them; and why do you stand against the congregation of the LORD?
NUM 16:4 And hearing, Moses fell upon his face.
NUM 16:5 And he spoke to Korah and to all the congregation, saying, God has visited and knows the ones being his; and the ones holy he led to himself; and whom he chose not for himself, he led not to himself.
NUM 16:6 This you do! You take to yourselves censers - Korah, and all his gathering!
NUM 16:7 And put fire upon them! And put upon them incense before the LORD tomorrow! And it will be the man who ever the LORD should choose, this one shall be holy. Let it be suitable to you, sons of Levi!
NUM 16:8 And Moses said to Korah, Listen to me, sons of Levi!
NUM 16:9 Is this a small thing to you, that God separated you from out of the congregation of Israel, and led you to himself to officiate the ministrations of the tent of the LORD, and to stand before the congregation to serve to them?
NUM 16:10 And he led you, and all your brethren of the sons of Levi with you, and do you seek to officiate as priest also?
NUM 16:11 Thus you and all your gathering are gathering together against God. And who is Aaron that you complain against him?
NUM 16:12 And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab. And they said, We do not ascend.
NUM 16:13 Is this a small thing that you led us from out of a land flowing milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, that you rule us, and be a ruler?
NUM 16:14 And into a land flowing milk and honey you brought us, and you gave to us a lot of inheritance of field and vineyards? Would you have cut out the eyes of those men? We do not ascend.
NUM 16:15 And Moses was weighed down exceedingly. And he said to the LORD, Do not take heed to their sacrifice. I have not taken the desire of any one of them, nor inflicted evil on any one of them.
NUM 16:16 And Moses said to Korah, Sanctify your congregation, and come prepared before the LORD, you and they, and Aaron tomorrow!
NUM 16:17 And let each take his censer! And you shall put incense upon them. And each shall bring his censer before the LORD - fifty and two hundred censers. And you and Aaron each shall bring his censer.
NUM 16:18 And each took his own censer. And they put upon them fire. And they put upon them incense. And stood 5by 6the 7doors 8of the 9tent 9of the 10testimony 1Moses 2and 3Aaron.
NUM 16:19 And Korah rose up together against them, the whole of his congregation, by the door of the tent of the testimony. And the glory of the LORD appeared to all the congregation.
NUM 16:20 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
NUM 16:21 Sever yourselves from out of the midst of this congregation, and I will completely consume them at once!
NUM 16:22 And they fell upon their face, and said, O God, the God of the spirits and of all flesh. If one man sinned, shall there be upon all the congregation the anger of the LORD?
NUM 16:23 And the LORD said to Moses, saying,
NUM 16:24 Speak to the congregation! saying, Withdraw round about from the congregation of Korah, and Dathan, and Abiram!
NUM 16:25 And Moses rose and went to Dathan and Abiram; and went with him all the elders of Israel.
NUM 16:26 And he spoke to the congregation, saying, Sever from the tents of these recalcitrant men, and do not touch of all as much as is to them - you should not be destroyed together in all their sin.
NUM 16:27 And both Dathan and Abiram left from the tent of Korah round about. And Dathan and Abiram came forth and stood by the doors of their tents, and their wives, and their children, and their belongings.
NUM 16:28 And Moses said, By this you shall know that the LORD sent me to execute all these works, that they are not of myself.
NUM 16:29 If by the common death of all men these shall die, and if according to the review of all men the visit of death shall be theirs, then the LORD has not sent me.
NUM 16:30 But if by a visible manifestation the LORD shall show, and the earth opening its mouth shall swallow them, and their houses, and their tents, and all as much as is theirs, and they shall go down alive into Hades; then you shall know that these men provoked the LORD.
NUM 16:31 And as he ceased speaking all these words, the earth was torn underneath them.
NUM 16:32 And the earth was opened, and it swallowed them, and their houses, and all the men of the ones being with Korah, and all their cattle.
NUM 16:33 And these went down, and all as many as is to them, alive into Hades. And the earth covered them, and they were destroyed from out of the midst of the congregation.
NUM 16:34 And all Israel round about them fled from their sound, saying, Lest at any time the earth shall swallow us.
NUM 16:35 And fire came forth from the LORD, and it devoured the fifty and two hundred men of the ones offering the incense.
NUM 16:36 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 16:37 Speak to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, Do away with the censers from out of the midst of the ones having been incinerated, and sow this alien fire there!
NUM 16:38 For they sanctified the censers of these sinners by their lives. And make them into scales hammered out for adornment to the altar! For they were brought near before the LORD, and were sanctified. And they became for a sign to the sons of Israel.
NUM 16:39 And Eleazar son of Aaron the priest took the censers of brass, as many as the men having been incinerated brought near; and they added them as an adornment to the altar,
NUM 16:40 as a memorial to the sons of Israel, how that not anyone foreign should come forward who is not of the seed of Aaron, to place incense before the LORD; so that he shall not be as Korah, and the ones conspiring with him - as the LORD spoke by the hand of Moses to him.
NUM 16:41 And the sons of Israel grumbled the next day against Moses and Aaron, saying, You have killed the people of the LORD.
NUM 16:42 And it came to pass in the gathering together the congregation against Moses and Aaron, that they advanced against the tent of the testimony. And thus the cloud covered it, and there appeared the glory of the LORD.
NUM 16:43 And Moses and Aaron entered by the front of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 16:44 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 16:45 Withdraw from out of the midst of this congregation, and I shall completely consume them at once. And they fell upon their face.
NUM 16:46 And Moses said to Aaron, Take the censer, and place upon it fire from the altar, and put upon it incense, and carry it quickly into the congregation, and make atonement for them! For anger came forth from the face of the LORD; it has begun to devastate the people.
NUM 16:47 And Aaron took, just as Moses said to him, and ran into the congregation, for already the devastation had commenced among the people. And he put the incense, and made atonement for the people.
NUM 16:48 And he stood between the ones having died and the ones living; and the devastation abated.
NUM 16:49 And the ones having died in the devastation were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, apart from the ones having died because of Korah.
NUM 16:50 And Aaron returned to Moses at the door of the tent of the testimony, and the devastation abated.
NUM 17:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 17:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! And take from them a rod - a rod according to the houses of the patrimony, from all their rulers, according to the houses of their patrimony - twelve rods! And for each inscribe the name upon his rod!
NUM 17:3 And the name of Aaron you shall inscribe upon the rod of Levi, for it is one rod according to the tribe of the house of their patrimony.
NUM 17:4 And you shall put them in the tent of the testimony, over against the testimony, in which I will be made known to you there.
NUM 17:5 And it shall be the man who ever I should choose him, his rod shall sprout forth. And I will remove from you the grumbling of the sons of Israel, as much as they grumble against you.
NUM 17:6 And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and all the rulers gave to him their rod - to the one ruler one rod, according to the ruler, according to the houses of their patrimony - twelve rods. And the rod of Aaron was in the midst of their rods.
NUM 17:7 And Moses put aside the rods before the LORD in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 17:8 And it came to pass in the next day, that Moses entered into the tent of the testimony. And behold, the rod of Aaron sprouted for the house of Levi. And it brought forth a bud, and it blossomed a flower, and sprouted walnuts.
NUM 17:9 And Moses brought forth all the rods from in front of the LORD to all the sons of Israel. And they saw, and each took his rod.
NUM 17:10 And the LORD said to Moses, Put aside the rod of Aaron before the testimony for preservation for a sign to the sons of the unhearing; and let cease their grumbling of me, so in no way they shall die!
NUM 17:11 And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD gave orders to Moses - so they did.
NUM 17:12 And the sons of Israel said to Moses, saying, Behold, we have been completely consumed, we have been destroyed, we all have been uselessly consumed,
NUM 17:13 every one touching the tent of the LORD dies. Until completion should we die?
NUM 18:1 And the LORD said to Aaron, You and your sons and the house of your father with you shall take the sins associated with the holies; and you and your sons with you shall take the sins associated with your priesthood.
NUM 18:2 And your brethren the tribe of Levi, the people of your father, lead to yourself, and let them be added to you, and let them officiate to you, even you and your sons with you before the tent of the testimony!
NUM 18:3 And they shall guard your watches, and the watches of the tent; except for the items of the holies and for the altar they shall not draw near, so that they shall not die, even these and you.
NUM 18:4 And they shall be added to you, and shall guard the watches of the tent of the testimony, concerning all the ministrations of the tent. And the foreigner shall not draw near to you.
NUM 18:5 And you shall guard the watches of the holy places, and the watches of the altar. And there shall not be yet rage among the sons of Israel.
NUM 18:6 And behold, I have taken of your brethren of the Levites from out of the midst of the sons of Israel as a gift being given to the LORD, to officiate the ministrations of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 18:7 And you and your sons after you shall observe your priesthood according to every manner of the altar, and the thing within the veil; and you shall officiate the ministrations as a gift of your priesthood - and the foreigner going to it shall die.
NUM 18:8 And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying, And behold, I give to you the preservation of my first-fruits from all the things having been sanctified by the sons of Israel; to you I give them as an honor, and to your sons for an eternal law.
NUM 18:9 And let this be to you from the holy things having been sanctified of the yield offerings, from all their gifts, and from all their sacrifices, and from all their trespass offerings, and from all their sin offerings, as many as they give back to me of all of the holy things - they shall be to you and to your sons!
NUM 18:10 In the holy of the holies you eat them! Let every male eat them! It shall be holy to you.
NUM 18:11 And this will be to you of the first-fruits of their gifts, from all of the increase offerings of the sons of Israel. To you I have given them, and to your sons, and to your daughters after you - an eternal law. Every clean person in your house shall eat them.
NUM 18:12 Every first-fruit of olive oil, and every first-fruit of wine, and of their first-fruit of grain, as many things as they should give to the LORD, to you I have given them.
NUM 18:13 All the first produce, as many things as are in their land, as many things as they should bring to the LORD, it will be to you; every clean person in your house shall eat them.
NUM 18:14 Every thing being devoted to consumption by the sons of Israel shall be to you.
NUM 18:15 And every thing opening wide the womb of all flesh, as many things as they offer to the LORD, from man unto beast, it will be to you - only with ransoms you shall ransom the first-born of men; and the first-born of the unclean cattle you shall ransom.
NUM 18:16 And the ransoming of him from a month old - the price is five shekels, according to the holy shekel - twenty oboli they are worth.
NUM 18:17 Except the first-born of calves, and the first-born of sheep, and the first-born of goats you shall not ransom - they are holy. And their blood you shall pour upon the altar, and the fat you shall offer as a yield offering, for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 18:18 And the meats will be to you, as also the breast of the increase offering. And accordingly the right shoulder will be to you.
NUM 18:19 Every separation portion of the holy things, as many things as the sons of Israel should remove to the LORD, to you I have given, and to your sons, and to your daughters after you - an eternal law. It is an eternal covenant of salt before the LORD to you and to your seed after you.
NUM 18:20 And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying, In their land you shall not be an heir, and a portion shall not be to you among them; for I am your portion and your inheritance in the midst of the sons of Israel.
NUM 18:21 And to the sons of Levi, behold, I have given every tenth part in Israel by lot for their ministrations, as much as they shall officiate the ministration in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 18:22 And the sons of Israel shall not come forward still into the tent of the testimony, so as to take on sin causing death.
NUM 18:23 And the Levite himself shall officiate the ministration of the tent of the testimony; and they shall take their sins - an eternal law into their generations. And in the midst of the sons of Israel they shall not be an heir of an inheritance;
NUM 18:24 for the tenth parts of the sons of Israel, as many things as they should separate to the LORD, a separation portion I give to the Levites by lot. On account of this I have said to them, Among the midst of the sons of Israel they shall not be an heir of a lot.
NUM 18:25 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 18:26 And to the Levites you shall speak, and you shall say to them, If you should take the tenth part from the sons of Israel, which I have given to you from them for a lot, then you shall remove to yourselves from it a separation portion to the LORD, a tenth of the tenth part.
NUM 18:27 And your separation portions shall be considered for you as grain from the threshing-floor, and as a separation portion from the wine-vat.
NUM 18:28 So you shall remove, even you yourselves, from all the separation portions of the LORD, from all your tenth parts; as many things as you should take from the sons of Israel; and you shall give of them a separation portion to the LORD, through Aaron the priest.
NUM 18:29 From all your gifts you shall remove a separation portion to the LORD, from all the first-fruits having been sanctified of it.
NUM 18:30 And you shall say to them, Whenever you should remove the first-fruit from it, then shall it be considered the Levites as produce from the threshing-floor, and as produce from the wine-vat.
NUM 18:31 And you shall eat it in any place, you and your households; for this is the wage to you for your ministrations of the things in the tent of the testimony.
NUM 18:32 And you shall not take sin because of it, in that you should remove the first-fruit from it. And the holy things of the sons of Israel you shall not profane, that you should not die.
NUM 19:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
NUM 19:2 This is a distinction of the law, as many things as the LORD ordered, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel! And let them take to you an unblemished reddish heifer, which has not a blemish on it, and which a yoke was not put upon it!
NUM 19:3 And you shall give it to Eleazar the priest, and they shall lead it outside the camp, and shall slay her before him.
NUM 19:4 And Eleazar shall take of her blood, and shall sprinkle, before the front of the tent of the testimony, of her blood seven times.
NUM 19:5 And you shall incinerate her before him; and her skin, and her meats, and her blood with her dung shall be incinerated.
NUM 19:6 And the priest shall take wood of cedar, and hyssop, and scarlet, and put it in the midst of the burning of the heifer.
NUM 19:7 And the priest shall wash his garments, and bathe his body in water, and after these things shall enter into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until evening.
NUM 19:8 And the one incinerating her shall wash his garments in water, and shall bathe his body in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
NUM 19:9 And a clean man shall gather together the ashes of the heifer, and shall put them aside outside the camp in a clean place. And it shall be for the congregation of the sons of Israel for preservation - It is a purification water of sprinkling.
NUM 19:10 And the one gathering the ashes of the heifer shall wash his garments, and will be unclean until evening. And it will be to the sons of Israel, and to the foreigners lying nearby in the midst of you, an eternal law.
NUM 19:11 The one touching any departed soul of a man having died will be unclean seven days.
NUM 19:12 This one shall be purified on the third day and the seventh day, and he will be clean. But if he should not be purified on the third day, and on the seventh day, he will not be clean.
NUM 19:13 Every one touching of the one having died of the departed soul of a man, if he should die, and the other should not have been purified, the tent of the LORD is defiled; and that soul shall be obliterated from Israel, for water of sprinkling was not sprinkled about upon him - he is unclean; his uncleanness is still with him.
NUM 19:14 2532 kaiAnd this is the law. A man, if he should die in a house - every one entering into the house, and as many as are in the house, will be unclean seven days.
NUM 19:15 And every item being open, as many as have not been bound with a bond upon it, is unclean.
NUM 19:16 And all who ever should touch upon the face of the plain of one slain, or of a dead corpse, or of a bone of mankind, or tomb - seven days he will be unclean.
NUM 19:17 And they shall take for the unclean some of the ashes of the thing having been incinerated for the purification, and shall pour out upon it living water into a utensil.
NUM 19:18 And a clean man shall take hyssop and shall dip it into the water, and sprinkle about upon the house, and upon the utensils, and upon the souls, as many as might be there, and upon the one touching the bone of mankind, or of the slain, or of the one having died, or of the tomb.
NUM 19:19 And the clean man shall sprinkle about upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day; and he shall be purified on the seventh day; and he shall wash his garments, and shall bathe in water, and he will be unclean until evening.
NUM 19:20 And a man who ever should be defiled, and shall not be purified, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from out of the midst of the congregation, for he defiled the holy things of the LORD, for the water of sprinkling was not sprinkled about upon him - he is unclean.
NUM 19:21 And it shall be to you an eternal law. And the one sprinkling about the water of sprinkling shall wash his garments; and the one touching the water of sprinkling will be unclean until evening.
NUM 19:22 And anything what ever should be touched by him (the one being unclean) shall be unclean until evening.
NUM 20:1 And all the congregation of the sons of Israel came into the wilderness of Zin, in the first month; and the people stayed in Kadesh. And Miriam came to an end there, and was entombed there.
NUM 20:2 And there was no water for the congregation, and they gathered themselves against Moses and Aaron.
NUM 20:3 And the people reviled against Moses, saying, Ought we died in the destruction of our brothers before the LORD.
NUM 20:4 And why did you lead the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness, to kill us, and our cattle?
NUM 20:5 And why is this you led us from out of Egypt to come unto this bad place? A place of which it is not sown, nor is there fig-trees, nor grapevines, nor pomegranates, nor is there water to drink.
NUM 20:6 And Moses and Aaron came from in front of the congregation, unto the door of the tent of the testimony, and they fell upon their face. And the glory of the LORD appeared to them.
NUM 20:7 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 20:8 Take the rod, and call an assembly of the congregation, you and Aaron your brother! And speak to the rock before them, and it shall give of its waters! And you shall bring forth to them water from out of the rock, and you shall give to drink the congregation and their cattle.
NUM 20:9 And Moses took the rod before the LORD, as the LORD gave orders to him.
NUM 20:10 And Moses held an assembly, and Aaron, of the congregation before the rock. And he said to them, Hear me, O ones resisting persuasion! Must we bring forth to you water from out of this rock?
NUM 20:11 And Moses, lifting his hand, struck the rock with the rod twice. And much water came forth, and the congregation drank, and their cattle.
NUM 20:12 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, Because you trusted not in me to sanctify me before the sons of Israel, because of this you yourselves shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given to them.
NUM 20:13 This is the Water of Dispute, for the sons of Israel were reviled before the LORD, and he was sanctified among them.
NUM 20:14 And Moses sent messengers from out of Kadesh to the king of Edom, saying, Thus says your brother Israel, You have knowledge of all the trouble finding us,
NUM 20:15 and how our fathers went down into Egypt, and we sojourned in Egypt many days, and the Egyptians inflicted evil on us and our fathers.
NUM 20:16 And we yelled out to the LORD, and the LORD listened to our voice. And sending an angel, he led us from out of Egypt. And now we are in Kadesh, a city of a part of your borders.
NUM 20:17 We shall go through your land. We will not go through the fields, nor through the vineyards, nor shall we drink water from out of your cistern. We shall go by the royal way. We shall not turn aside to the right nor left, until whenever we should have gone by your borders.
NUM 20:18 And Edom said to him, You shall not go through mine, and if otherwise, in war I shall come forth to meet with you.
NUM 20:19 And the sons of Israel say to him, We shall go by the mountain. And if we drink of your water, both I and my cattle, I will give the value of it to you. But the thing is nothing, we shall go by the mountain.
NUM 20:20 And he said, You shall not go through of mine. And Edom came forth to meet with him with a heavy multitude, and with a strong hand.
NUM 20:21 And Edom wanted not to give permission to Israel to go through his borders. And Israel turned aside from him.
NUM 20:22 And they departed from out of Kadesh. And the sons of Israel came, all the congregation, unto Hor the mountain.
NUM 20:23 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron in Hor, in the mountain, upon the borders of the land of Edom, saying,
NUM 20:24 Let Aaron be added to his people, for in no way should he enter into the land which I have given to the sons of Israel, for you provoked me at the Water of Dispute.
NUM 20:25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and haul them unto Hor the mountain!
NUM 20:26 And take off of Aaron his apparel, and put it on Eleazar his son! And Aaron, having been added to his people, let him die there!
NUM 20:27 And Moses did as the LORD gave orders to him, and hauled them unto Hor the mountain before all the congregation.
NUM 20:28 And Moses stripped off Aaron his garments, and put them on Eleazar his son. And Aaron died upon the top of the mountain. And Moses and Eleazar came down from out of the mountain.
NUM 20:29 And all the congregation saw that Aaron was loosed, and all the house of Israel wept for Aaron thirty days.
NUM 21:1 And king Arad the Canaanite heard, the one dwelling by the wilderness, that Israel came by the way to Atharin. And he waged war against Israel, and they carried away captive some of them into captivity.
NUM 21:2 And Israel vowed a vow to the LORD, and said, If you should deliver up to me this people under my hand, I will devote him to consumption, and his cities.
NUM 21:3 And the LORD listened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanite unto his hand; and he devoted him to consumption, and his cities. And they called the name of that place, Anathema.
NUM 21:4 And departing from Hor the mountain, by way unto the red sea, they encircled the land of Edom - and the people became faint-hearted in the way.
NUM 21:5 And the people spoke ill against God, and against Moses, saying, Why did you lead us out of Egypt to kill us in the wilderness? For there is not bread nor water; and our soul loathes in this empty bread.
NUM 21:6 And the LORD sent to the people the serpents, causing death. And they bit the people; and many people died of the sons of Israel.
NUM 21:7 And the people came to Moses, saying that, We sinned, for we spoke ill against the LORD, and against you; make a vow then to the LORD that he remove from us the serpent! And Moses made a vow for the people.
NUM 21:8 And the LORD said to Moses, Make to yourself a serpent of brass, and put it upon a sign! And all having been bitten, beholding it, shall live.
NUM 21:9 And Moses made a serpent of brass, and set it upon a sign. And it came to pass whenever a serpent bit a man, and he looked upon the serpent of brass, that he lived.
NUM 21:10 And the sons of Israel departed, and camped in Oboth.
NUM 21:11 And lifting away from Oboth, they camped in Ije-abarim in the wilderness, which is against the face of Moab according to the east of the sun.
NUM 21:12 From there they departed and camped at the ravine of Zared.
NUM 21:13 From there departing, they camped in the other side of Arnon, in the wilderness protruding from the borders of the Amorites. For Arnon is the boundary of Moab, between Moab and the Amorite.
NUM 21:14 On account of this it says in the war scroll of the LORD, Zoob set ablaze, and the rushing streams of Arnon.
NUM 21:15 And he established the rushing streams to settle Ar, and it lies near to the boundaries of Moab.
NUM 21:16 And from there they came to The Well. This is the well which the LORD said to Moses, Gather together the people, and I will give to them water.
NUM 21:17 Then Israel sang this song at The Well, Take the lead to him, O Well.
NUM 21:18 Rulers dug it; kings of nations quarried in their kingdoms, in their dominating. And from Well they went unto Mattanah.
NUM 21:19 And from Mattanah to Nahaliel. And from Nahaliel to Bamoth. And from Bamoth to Janen, which is in the plain of Moab, seen from the top of the dressing of the stone - the place looking down at the face of the wilderness.
NUM 21:20 And Israel sent ambassadors to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
NUM 21:21 We shall go through your land. We will not turn aside, neither into a field, nor into a vineyard;
NUM 21:22 nor shall we drink water from out of your well. We will go by the royal way, until whenever we pass by your borders.
NUM 21:23 And Sihon did not give permission to Israel to go through his borders. And Sihon gathered together all his people, and came forth to deploy against Israel in the wilderness. And he came unto Jahaz, and deployed against Israel.
NUM 21:24 And Israel struck him with a carnage of the sword, and dominated his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, unto the sons of Ammon. For Jazer is the boundaries of the sons of Ammon.
NUM 21:25 And Israel took all these cities. And Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites - in Heshbon, and in all the ones falling in with it.
NUM 21:26 For Heshbon is the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites. And this one waged war against the king of Moab formerly. And they took all his land from his hand unto Arnon.
NUM 21:27 On account of this the ones speaking enigmas say, Come into Heshbon, for the city of Sihon should have been built and should have been carefully prepared;
NUM 21:28 for fire came forth from out of Heshbon, a flame from out of the city of Sihon; and it devoured unto Moab, and swallowed down the monuments of Arnon.
NUM 21:29 Woe to you Moab. You are destroyed people of Chemosh. Their sons were rendered over to be preserved, and their daughters captives to the king of the Amorites - Sihon.
NUM 21:30 And their seed shall perish - Heshbon unto Dibon. And their women still burn a fire over Moab.
NUM 21:31 And Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites.
NUM 21:32 And Moses sent to survey Jazer, and they overtook it, and her towns, and cast out the Amorite dwelling there.
NUM 21:33 And having turned they ascended the way unto Bashan. And came forth Og king of Bashan to meet with them, and all his people, for war in Edrei.
NUM 21:34 And the LORD said to Moses, Do not fear him; for into your hands I have delivered him, and all his people, and all his land. And you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon.
NUM 21:35 And he struck him, and his sons, and all his people, until the not being left behind of his for taking alive. And they inherited his land.
NUM 22:1 And departing, the sons of Israel camped upon the descent of Moab by the Jordan near Jericho.
NUM 22:2 And Balak son of Zippor seeing all as much as Israel did to the Amorites,
NUM 22:3 that Moab feared the people exceedingly, for they were many. And Moab loathed of the face of the sons of Israel.
NUM 22:4 And Moab said to the council of elders of Midian, Now this congregation shall lick up all the ones round about us, as the calf licks up the green grass from out of the plain. And Balak son of Zippor was king of Moab at that time.
NUM 22:5 And he sent ambassadors to Balaam son of Beor, to Pethor, which is upon the river of the land of the sons of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, a people have come forth from out of Egypt. And behold, it covers up the appearance of the earth, and this people lie in wait next to me.
NUM 22:6 And now, come curse for me this people, for it is stronger than me! If we should be able to strike at them, then I will cast them from out of the land. For I know that whom ever you should bless - they are blessed, and whom ever you should curse - they are cursed.
NUM 22:7 And the council of elders of Moab went, and the council of elders of Midian - and the oracles were in their hands. And they came to Balaam, and they spoke to him the words of Balak.
NUM 22:8 And he said to them, You rest up here the night, and I will answer you the things which ever the LORD should speak to me! And the rulers of Moab stayed with Balaam.
NUM 22:9 And God came to Balaam, and he said to him, What do these men want with you?
NUM 22:10 And Balaam said to God, Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab, sent them to me, saying,
NUM 22:11 Behold, a people come forth from out of Egypt, and covered the appearance of the earth. And now, come curse it for me! If it is so I shall be able to strike it, and I will cast it out.
NUM 22:12 And God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them, nor shall you curse the people, for they are blessed.
NUM 22:13 And Balaam rising in the morning, said to the rulers of Balak, You run to your land, the LORD does not allow me to go with you.
NUM 22:14 And rising, the rulers of Moab came to Balak. And they said, Balaam does not want to go with us.
NUM 22:15 And Balak added again to send many rulers, and ones more important than these.
NUM 22:16 And they came to Balaam, and they say to him, Thus says Balak the son of Zippor, I deem you worthy, you should not be reluctant to come to me,
NUM 22:17 for highly valued I will esteem you, and as many things as you should say to me I will do for you. Now come, accurse for me this people!
NUM 22:18 And Balaam answered and said to the rulers of Balak, If Balak shall give to me his house full of silver and gold, I shall not be able to violate the word of the LORD God, to do it small or great.
NUM 22:19 And now remain behind here, even you this night! and I will know what the LORD shall add to speak to me.
NUM 22:20 And God came to Balaam at night, and said to him, If these men calling you are at hand, rising up follow them, but the saying which ever I speak to you, this you observe!
NUM 22:21 And Balaam, rising in the morning, saddled his donkey, and went with the rulers of Moab.
NUM 22:22 And God was provoked to anger in rage that he himself went. And the angel of God rose up in the way to stand in the way as an adversary against him. And he mounted upon his donkey, and his two servants with him.
NUM 22:23 And the donkey seeing the angel of God opposing it in the way, and the broadsword being unsheathed in his hand, that the donkey turned aside from out of the way, and went into the plain. And he struck the donkey to straighten it in the way.
NUM 22:24 And the angel of God stood in the furrows of the grapevines, a barrier here on this side and a barrier here on that side.
NUM 22:25 And the donkey seeing the angel of God, pressed herself against the wall, and she squeezed the foot of Balaam to the wall, and he added again to crack the whip on her.
NUM 22:26 And the angel of God proceeded going forth. And he stood in a narrow place for which there was not a turning aside right or left.
NUM 22:27 And the donkey seeing the angel of God, sat down underneath Balaam. And Balaam became enraged, and beat the donkey with the rod.
NUM 22:28 And God opened the mouth of the donkey, and she says to Balaam, What did I do to you that you have hit me this third time?
NUM 22:29 And Balaam said to the donkey that, You have mocked me, and if I had a sword in my hand, already I would have stabbed you.
NUM 22:30 And the donkey says to Balaam, Am I not your donkey, upon which you mounted from your youth, until today's day? Have I acted to neglect by overlooking you thus? And he said, No!
NUM 22:31 And God uncovered the eyes of Balaam, and he sees the angel of the LORD opposing him in the way, and the sword being unsheathed in his hand. And bowing, he did obeisance on his face.
NUM 22:32 And the angel of God said to him, Why do you strike your donkey this third time? Now behold, I came forth to distract you, for your way was not fair before me.
NUM 22:33 And seeing me, the donkey turned aside from me this third time. And unless she turned aside from me, now then you indeed I would have killed, and then I would have preserved her.
NUM 22:34 And Balaam said to the angel of the LORD, I have sinned, for I did not have knowledge that you opposed me in the way to meet with me. And now, unless it not be sufficient to you, I shall return.
NUM 22:35 And the angel of God said to Balaam, You go with the men! Except the word which ever I should say to you, this you shall guard to speak. And Balaam went with the rulers of Balak.
NUM 22:36 And Balak hearing that Balaam had come, came forth to meet him in a city of Moab, which is upon the borders of Arnon, which is of the parts of the borders.
NUM 22:37 And Balak said to Balaam, Did I not send to you to call you? Why have you not come to me? Really, shall I not be able to esteem you?
NUM 22:38 And Balaam said to Balak, Behold, I come to you now. Am I able to speak anything? The word which ever God should put into my mouth, this I will speak.
NUM 22:39 And Balaam went with Balak. And they came to Cities of Properties.
NUM 22:40 And Balak sacrificed sheep and calves. And he sent to Balaam, and to the rulers with him.
NUM 22:41 And it became morning. And Balak, taking Balaam, transported him unto the stele of Baal, and showed to him from there a certain part of the people.
NUM 23:1 And Balaam said to Balak, Build for me here seven shrines, and prepare for me here seven calves, and seven rams!
NUM 23:2 And Balak did in which manner Balaam said to him. And he offered a calf and ram upon the shrine.
NUM 23:3 And Balaam said to Balak, You stand beside your sacrifice, and I shall go to see if God shall appear to meet with me. And the saying which ever he shall show to me I shall announce to you. And he went straight.
NUM 23:4 And God appeared to Balaam. And Balaam said to him, The seven shrines I prepared, and I brought a calf and ram unto the shrine.
NUM 23:5 And God put a word into the mouth of Balaam, and he said, Turning towards Balak thus you shall speak.
NUM 23:6 And he returned to him, and thus he stood over his whole burnt offerings, and all the rulers of Moab with him.
NUM 23:7 And taking up his parable, he said, From out of Mesopotamia Balak king of Moab fetched me, out of the mountains of the east, saying, Come curse for me Jacob! And come accurse to me Israel!
NUM 23:8 How shall I curse whom the LORD does not curse? And how shall I imprecate maledictions upon whom God does not imprecate maledictions upon?
NUM 23:9 For from the top of mountains I shall see him, and from hills I shall pay attention to him. Behold, a people shall dwell alone, and among nations they shall not be reckoned together.
NUM 23:10 Who determined exactly the seed of Jacob, and who shall count out peoples of Israel? May my soul die among souls of just ones, and may my seed become as the seed of this.
NUM 23:11 And Balak said to Balaam, What have you done to me? For a curse for my enemies I have called you, and behold, you have blessed a blessing.
NUM 23:12 And Balaam said to Balak, Is it not as many things as God should put in my mouth - this I will guard to speak?
NUM 23:13 And Balak said to him, Come yet with me to another place of which you shall not see it from there, but only a certain part of it shall you see, but in no way should you see all, and you curse it for me from there!
NUM 23:14 And he took him into a field - a height upon the top of a place for dressing stone, and built there seven shrines, and brought a calf and ram unto the shrine.
NUM 23:15 And Balaam said to Balak, Stand beside your sacrifice, and I shall go to ask God!
NUM 23:16 And God met with Balaam, and put a word into his mouth. And he said, Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak!
NUM 23:17 And he returned to him. And thus he was standing beside his whole burnt offering, and the rulers of Moab with him. And Balak said to him, What said the LORD?
NUM 23:18 And taking up his parable, he said, Rise up, O Balak, and hear! Give ear, O witness son of Zippor!
NUM 23:19 God is not as a man to waver, nor as a son of man to be threatened. He in speaking, shall he not do? Shall he speak, and not adhere to?
NUM 23:20 Behold, I have taken to myself to bless. I will bless, and in no way shall I turn back.
NUM 23:21 There shall not be trouble in Jacob, nor shall misery appear in Israel. The LORD his God with him, the honorable ones of rulers with him.
NUM 23:22 God, the one leading him out of Egypt; as the glory of his unicorn.
NUM 23:23 For there is not an omen in Jacob, nor divination in Israel. In time it shall be told to Jacob and to Israel what God shall complete.
NUM 23:24 Behold, the people as a cub shall raise up, and as a lion it shall prance. It shall not go to sleep until it shall eat game, and the blood of the slain it shall drink.
NUM 23:25 And Balak said to Balaam, Neither in curses shall you curse him, nor blessing shall you bless him.
NUM 23:26 And Balaam answering said to Balak, Did I not speak to you, saying, The word which ever God should speak, this I will do?
NUM 23:27 And Balak said to Balaam, Come, I should take you unto another place, if it should please God, and curse him for me from there!
NUM 23:28 And Balak took Balaam upon the top of Peor, the part extending into the wilderness.
NUM 23:29 And Balaam said to Balak, Build for me here seven shrines, and prepare for me here seven calves and seven rams!
NUM 23:30 And Balak did just as Balaam said to him, and bore a calf and a ram unto the shrine.
NUM 24:1 And Balaam seeing that it is good before the LORD to bless Israel, went not according to the accustomed way to meet with the ones with omens; and he turned back his face to the wilderness.
NUM 24:2 And Balaam lifting up his eyes, looks down on Israel encamped by tribes. And spirit of God became upon him.
NUM 24:3 And taking up his parable, he said, Says Balaam son of Beor. Says the man seeing true.
NUM 24:4 Says the one hearing oracles of God, who saw a vision of God in sleep; uncovering his eyes.
NUM 24:5 How good are your houses, O Jacob, your tents, O Israel.
NUM 24:6 As groves shadowing, as parks near a river, and as tents which the LORD pitched, as cedars by waters.
NUM 24:7 A man came forth from out of his seed, and shall dominate many nations. And Gog his kingdom shall be raised up high, and his kingdom shall be increased.
NUM 24:8 God guided him from out of Egypt; as the glory of a unicorn to him. He shall eat the nations of his enemies, and will extract the marrow of their thickness, and with his arrows he shall shoot an enemy.
NUM 24:9 Lying down he rested as a lion; and as a cub who shall raise him? The ones blessing you - they are blessed, and the ones cursing you - they are cursed.
NUM 24:10 And Balak was enraged at Balaam, and struck together his hands. And Balak said to Balaam, To imprecate maledictions upon my enemy I have called you, and behold, with a blessing you blessed this third time.
NUM 24:11 Now then, flee unto your place! I said I will esteem you, but now the LORD deprived you of the glory.
NUM 24:12 And Balaam said to Balak, Did I not also speak to your messengers whom you sent to me, saying,
NUM 24:13 If Balak should give to me his house full of silver and gold, I shall not be able to violate the word of the LORD, to do it good or bad by myself. As many things as God should say to me, these things I shall speak.
NUM 24:14 And now, behold, I run to my place. Come, I will advise you what this people will do with your people in the last of the days.
NUM 24:15 And taking up his parable, he said, Says Balaam son of Beor. Says the man seeing true,
NUM 24:16 In hearing oracles of God, having knowledge of higher knowledge by the highest, and seeing a vision of God in sleep, uncovering his eyes.
NUM 24:17 I will show to him, but not now. I bless, and he approaches not. A star will arise from out of Jacob, and a man shall rise up from out of Israel, and he shall devastate the heads of Moab, and he shall despoil all of the sons of Sheth.
NUM 24:18 And Edom shall be an inheritance, and Esau his enemy shall be an inheritance. And Israel acted in strength.
NUM 24:19 And one shall be awakened from out of Jacob, and shall destroy the one escaping from out of the city.
NUM 24:20 And having seen Amalek, and taking up his parable, he said, The head of nations is Amalek, and his seed shall perish.
NUM 24:21 And having seen the Kenite, and taking up his parable, he said, Your dwelling is strong, and if you should put your nest in a rock,
NUM 24:22 and if it be to Beor a nest of astuteness, the Assyrians shall capture you.
NUM 24:23 And taking up his parable, he said, Oh, oh, who shall live whenever God should appoint these things?
NUM 24:24 And one shall come forth from out of the hands of the Chittim, and they shall afflict Assyria, and they shall afflict Hebrews, and they with one accord shall perish.
NUM 24:25 And Balaam rising up, went forth returning unto his place. And Balak went forth to his own.
NUM 25:1 And Israel rested up in Shittim, and the people profaned to fornicate with the daughters of Moab.
NUM 25:2 And they called them unto the sacrifices of their idols, and the people ate of their sacrifices, and did obeisance to their idols.
NUM 25:3 And Israel was initiated to Baal-peor. And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage against Israel.
NUM 25:4 And the LORD said to Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and make an example of them for the LORD over against the sun, and the anger of the rage of the LORD shall turn away from Israel!
NUM 25:5 And Moses said to the tribes of Israel, Let each kill the one of his family being initiated to Baal-Peor!
NUM 25:6 And behold, a man of the sons of Israel in coming led forward his brother to the Midianitish woman before Moses, and before all the congregation of the sons of Israel. And they were weeping by the door of the tent of the testimony.
NUM 25:7 And seeing, Phinehas son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, rose up from out of the midst of the congregation. And taking a spear in his hand,
NUM 25:8 he entered after the Israelitish man into the furnace, and pierced both the Israelitish man, and the woman through her womb - and the calamity ceased from the sons of Israel.
NUM 25:9 And the ones having died by the calamity were four and twenty thousand.
NUM 25:10 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 25:11 Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, caused my rage to cease from the sons of Israel, in my being jealous in the zeal for them; and I did not completely consume the sons of Israel in my zeal.
NUM 25:12 Thus say! Behold, I make with him my covenant of peace;
NUM 25:13 and it will be to him and to his seed after him a covenant of an eternal priesthood, because he was jealous for his God, and he atoned for the sons of Israel.
NUM 25:14 And the name of the Israelitish man being struck, who was stricken with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri son of Salu, ruler of the house of the family of Simeon.
NUM 25:15 And the name of the Midianitish woman being struck was Cozbi, daughter of Zur, a ruler of the nation of Ommoth - it is of the house of the family of the ones of Midian.
NUM 25:16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel! saying,
NUM 25:17 Hate the Midianites, and strike them!
NUM 25:18 For with deceit they are hating you, as they used deceit against you through Peor, even through Cozbi, daughter of the ruler of Midian, their sister, the one being struck in the day of the calamity on account of Peor.
NUM 26:1 And it came to pass after the calamity, and the LORD spoke to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, saying,
NUM 26:2 Take the sum of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, from twenty years and up, according to the houses of their patrimony, every one going forth to deploy among Israel!
NUM 26:3 And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the wilderness of Moab at the Jordan by Jericho, saying,
NUM 26:4 This is the numbering from twenty years and up, in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses. And the sons of Israel coming forth from out of Egypt -
NUM 26:5 Reuben, first-born of Israel. And the sons of Reuben - Hanoch, the people of the Hanochites. The one of Pallu, the people of the Palluites.
NUM 26:6 To Hezron, the people of the Hezronites. To Carmi, the people of the of Carmites.
NUM 26:7 These are the peoples of Reuben. And the number of them was three and forty thousand and seven hundred and thirty.
NUM 26:8 And the sons of Pallu - Eliab.
NUM 26:9 And the sons of Eliab - Namuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are the ones summoned of the congregation. These are the ones rising up together against Moses and Aaron in the gathering of Korah, in the conspiring against the LORD.
NUM 26:10 And the earth opening its mouth swallowed them and Korah in the death of his congregation, when the fire devoured the fifty and two hundred. And they were made as a sign.
NUM 26:11 But the sons of Korah died not.
NUM 26:12 And the sons of Simeon. The people of the sons of Simeon - to Nemuel, the people the Nemuelites. To Jamin, the people the Jaminites. To Jachin, the people the Jachinites.
NUM 26:13 To Zerah, the people the Zerahites. To Shaul, the people the Shaulites.
NUM 26:14 These are the peoples of Simeon by their numbering - two and twenty thousand and two hundred.
NUM 26:15 The sons of Gad according to their peoples. To Zephon, the people the Zephonites. To Haggi, the people the Haggites. To Shuni, the people the Shunites.
NUM 26:16 To Ozni, the people the Oznites. To Eri, the people the Erites.
NUM 26:17 To Arod, the people the Arodites. To Areli, the people the Arelites.
NUM 26:18 These are the peoples of the sons of Gad by their numbering - forty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 26:19 Sons of Judah - Er and Onan, Shelah, and Pharez and Zara. And Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
NUM 26:20 And the sons of Judah were according to their peoples - to Shelah, the people the Shelanites. To Pharez, the people the Pharzites. To Zerah, the people the Zerhites.
NUM 26:21 And the sons of Pharez were - to Hezron, the people the Hezronites. To to Hamul, the people the Hamulites.
NUM 26:22 These are the peoples to Judah, according to their numbering - six and seventy thousand and five hundred.
NUM 26:23 And the sons of Issachar according to their peoples - to Tola, the people the Tolaites. To Pua, the people the Punites.
NUM 26:24 To Jashub, the people the Jashubites. To Shimron, the people the Shimronites.
NUM 26:25 These are the peoples of Issachar by their numbering - four and sixty thousand and three hundred.
NUM 26:26 Sons of Zebulun according to their peoples - to Sered, the people the Sardites. To Elon, the people the Elonites. To Jahleel, the people the Jahleelites.
NUM 26:27 These are the peoples of Zebulun by their numbering - sixty thousand and five hundred.
NUM 26:28 Sons of Joseph according to their peoples - Manasseh and Ephraim.
NUM 26:29 Sons of Manasseh - to Machir, the people the Machirites. And Machir procreated Gilead. To Gilead, the people the Gileadites.
NUM 26:30 And these are sons of Gilead - to Jeezer, the people the Jeezerites. To Helek, the people the Helekites.
NUM 26:31 To Asriel, the people the Asrielites. To Shechem, the people the Shechemites.
NUM 26:32 To Shemida, the people the Shemidaites. And to Hepher, the people the Hepherites.
NUM 26:33 And to Zelophehad son of Hepher there were not sons to him, only daughters. And these are the names of the daughters of Zelophehad - Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tizrah.
NUM 26:34 These are the peoples of Manasseh by their numbering - two and fifty thousand and seven hundred.
NUM 26:35 These are the sons of Ephraim - to Shuthelah, the people the Shuthelahites. To Becher, the people the Becherites. To Tahan, the people the Tahanites.
NUM 26:36 These are the sons of Shuthelah - to Eran, the people the Eranites.
NUM 26:37 These are the peoples of Ephraim by their numbering - two and thirty thousand and five hundred. These are the peoples of the sons of Joseph according to their peoples.
NUM 26:38 Sons of Benjamin according to their peoples - to Bela, the people the Belaites. To Ashbel, the people the Ashbelites. To Ahiram, the people the Ahiramites.
NUM 26:39 To Shupham, the people the Shuphamites. To Hupham, the people the Huphamites.
NUM 26:40 And were the sons of Bela - Ard and Naaman. To Ard, the people the Ardites. To Naaman, the people the Naamites.
NUM 26:41 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their peoples by their numbering - five and forty thousand and six hundred.
NUM 26:42 And the sons of Dan according to their peoples - to Shuham, the people the Shuhamites. These are the peoples of Dan according to their peoples.
NUM 26:43 All the peoples of Shuham, according to their overseeing - four and sixty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 26:44 Sons of Asher according to their peoples - to Jimna, the people the Jimnites. To Jesui, the people the Jesuites. To Beriah, the people the Beriites.
NUM 26:45 To Heber, the people the Heberites. To Malchiel, the people the Malchielites.
NUM 26:46 And the name of the daughter of Asher - Sarah.
NUM 26:47 These are the peoples of Asher by their numbering - three and fifty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 26:48 The sons of Naphtali according to their peoples - to Jahzeel, the people the Jahzeelites. To Guni, the people the Gunites.
NUM 26:49 To Jezer, the people the Jezerites. To Shillem, the people the Shillemites.
NUM 26:50 These are the peoples of Naphtali by their numbering - five and forty thousand and four hundred.
NUM 26:51 This is the numbering of the sons of Israel - six hundred thousand and a thousand and seven hundred and thirty.
NUM 26:52 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 26:53 To these the land shall be portioned to inherit by the number of names.
NUM 26:54 To the many the inheritance will be superabundant, and to the less their inheritance will be less. To each as they are numbered their inheritance shall be given.
NUM 26:55 By lots the land shall be portioned by the names. According to the tribes of their patrimony they shall inherit.
NUM 26:56 By the lot you shall portion their inheritance between the many and few.
NUM 26:57 And the sons of Levi according to their peoples - to Gershon, the people the Gershonites. To Kohath, the people the Kohathites. To Merari, the people the Merarites.
NUM 26:58 These are the peoples of the sons of Levi - the people the Libinites. The people the Hebronites. The people the Mahlites. The people the Mushites. And the people the Korathites. And Kohath procreated Amram.
NUM 26:59 And the name of his wife was Jochebed, daughter of Levi, who bore these to Levi in Egypt. And she bore to Amram - Aaron and Moses and Miriam their sister.
NUM 26:60 And was born to Aaron both Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.
NUM 26:61 And Nadab and Abihu died in their offering alien fire before the LORD in the wilderness of Sinai.
NUM 26:62 And there were of their numbering - three and twenty thousand, every male from a month and up. For they were not considered together in the midst of the sons of Israel, for a lot was not given to them in the midst of the sons of Israel.
NUM 26:63 And this numbering was by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Moab at the Jordan by Jericho.
NUM 26:64 And among these there was not a man of the ones being numbered by Moses and Aaron whom they numbered being of the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
NUM 26:65 For the LORD said to them, By death they shall die in the wilderness, and there shall not be left behind of them not even one, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
NUM 27:1 And there came forward the daughters of Zelophehad, son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir of the people of Manasseh, of the sons of Joseph. And these are their names - Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tizrah.
NUM 27:2 And standing before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the rulers, and before all the congregation at the door of the tent of the testimony, they say,
NUM 27:3 Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not in the midst of the congregation of the ones rising up together against the LORD in the congregation of Korah. For because of his sin he died, and sons were not born to him. Let the name of our father not be wiped away from out of the midst of his people, for there is not a son to him! Give to us a possession in the midst of the brothers of our father!
NUM 27:4 And Moses brought their case before the LORD.
NUM 27:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 27:6 Rightly the daughters of Zelophehad have spoken. A gift you shall give to them for possession of an inheritance in the midst of the brothers of their father; and you shall put the lot of their father among them.
NUM 27:7 And to the sons of Israel you shall speak, saying,
NUM 27:8 A man if he should die, and there might not be a son to him, you shall invest his inheritance to his daughter.
NUM 27:9 And if there might not be a daughter to him, you shall give his inheritance to his brother.
NUM 27:10 And if there should not be brothers to him, you shall give his inheritance to the brother of his father.
NUM 27:11 And if there might not be brothers of his father, you shall give his inheritance to the member of the family, to the one nearest him of his tribe, to inherit the things of his. And this will be to the sons of Israel an ordinance of equity, as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 27:12 And the LORD said to Moses, Ascend into the mountain on the other side of the Jordan, this mount Nebo, and see the land of Canaan which I give to the sons of Israel for a possession!
NUM 27:13 And you shall see it, and you shall be added to your people, even you, as Aaron your brother was added in Or the mountain.
NUM 27:14 For you both violated my word in the wilderness of Zin, in the congregation rushing headlong against the sanctifying me. You did not sanctify me at the water before them - this is the Water of Dispute - Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin.
NUM 27:15 And Moses said to the LORD,
NUM 27:16 Let the LORD God of the spirits and all flesh watch for a man to be over this congregation,
NUM 27:17 who shall go forth before their face, and who shall enter before their face, and who shall lead them, and who shall bring them; that the congregation of the LORD shall not be as sheeps in which there is not a shepherd.
NUM 27:18 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, Take to yourself Joshua son of Nun, a man who has spirit in him! And you shall place your hands upon him.
NUM 27:19 And you shall set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and you shall give charge to him before them.
NUM 27:20 And you shall put your glory upon him, so that the sons of Israel should hearken to him.
NUM 27:21 And before Eleazar the priest he shall stand, and they shall ask him the equity of the manifestations before the LORD. By his mouth they shall go forth, and by his mouth they shall enter - he, and all the sons of Israel with one accord, and all the congregation.
NUM 27:22 And Moses did as the LORD gave charge to him. And taking Joshua, he stood him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation.
NUM 27:23 And he placed his hands upon him, and stood him just as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 28:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 28:2 Give charge to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, saying, My gifts, my presents, my yield offerings for a scent of pleasant aroma, you shall observe to bring near to me in my holidays.
NUM 28:3 And you shall say to them, These are the yield offerings which you shall lead to the LORD - he-lambs of a year old, unblemished, two a day for a whole burnt offering perpetually.
NUM 28:4 The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the second lamb you shall offer towards evening.
NUM 28:5 And you shall offer the tenth of the ephah of fine flour for a sacrifice offering being prepared in olive oil the fourth part of the hin.
NUM 28:6 It is a perpetual whole burnt offering taking place in mount Sinai, for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 28:7 And its libation - the fourth part of the hin to the one lamb. In the holy place you shall offer a libation of liquor to the LORD.
NUM 28:8 And the second lamb you shall offer towards evening, according to its sacrifice offering, and as its libation you shall offer it for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 28:9 And in the day of the sabbaths you shall lead forward two lambs of a year old, unblemished, and two tenths of fine flour, being prepared in olive oil for a sacrifice offering, and its libation -
NUM 28:10 this is the whole burnt offering of the sabbaths on the sabbaths, besides the continual whole burnt offering, and its libation.
NUM 28:11 And in the new moons you shall lead a whole burnt offering to the LORD - two calves of the oxen, and one ram, seven unblemished lambs of a year old;
NUM 28:12 and three tenths of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for the one calf; and two tenths of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for the one ram.
NUM 28:13 And a tenth of fine flour being prepared in olive oil for the one lamb - a sacrifice scent of pleasant aroma, a yield offering to the LORD.
NUM 28:14 To their libation will be the half of the hin of wine for the one calf, and the third of the hin of wine will be for the one ram, and the fourth of the hin of wine will be for the one lamb. This is the whole burnt offering, month by month throughout the months of the year.
NUM 28:15 And a young he-goat from the goats - one for a sin offering to the LORD, beside the continual whole burnt offering you shall offer, and its libation.
NUM 28:16 And in the first month, the fourteenth day of the month, is a passover to the LORD.
NUM 28:17 And in the fifteenth day of the month, this is a holiday - seven days you shall eat unleavened breads.
NUM 28:18 And the first day will be a holy summoning to you. All work which is servile you shall not do.
NUM 28:19 And you shall bring whole burnt offerings, a yield offering to the LORD - two calves of the oxen, one ram, seven lambs of a year old; they shall be unblemished to you.
NUM 28:20 And their sacrifice offering shall be of fine flour being prepared in olive oil - three tenths for the one calf, and two tenths for the one ram.
NUM 28:21 You shall offer a tenth tithe for the one lamb, to the seven lambs;
NUM 28:22 and a young he-goat from the goats - one for a sin offering, to atone for you,
NUM 28:23 besides the continual whole burnt offering of the early morning, which is a perpetual whole burnt offering.
NUM 28:24 These according to these manners you shall offer per day for the seven days as a gift yield offering scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD - with the continual whole burnt offering you shall offer its libation.
NUM 28:25 And the seventh day will be a holy calling to you; all servile work you shall not do on it.
NUM 28:26 And the day of the new produce, whenever you should bring a new produce sacrifice of the period of sevens to the LORD, it will be a holy summoning to you; all servile work you shall not do.
NUM 28:27 And you shall bring whole burnt offerings for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD - two calves of the oxen, one ram, seven lambs of a year old unblemished.
NUM 28:28 Their sacrifice offering shall be of fine flour being prepared in olive oil, three tenths for the one calf, and two tenths for the one ram,
NUM 28:29 a tenth tithe to the one lamb, to the seven lambs,
NUM 28:30 and one young he-goat from the goats for a sin offering, to atone for you;
NUM 28:31 besides the continual whole burnt offering, and their sacrifice offering you shall offer to me - they shall be unblemished to you, and with their libations.
NUM 29:1 And the seventh month, day one of the month, will be a holy summoning to you; all servile work you shall not do - a day of signal it will be to you.
NUM 29:2 And you shall offer whole burnt offerings for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD - one calf of the oxen, one ram, seven unblemished lambs of a year old.
NUM 29:3 Their sacrifice offering shall be of fine flour being prepared in olive oil - three tenths for the one calf, and two tenths for the one ram.
NUM 29:4 A tenth tithe to the one lamb to the seven lambs.
NUM 29:5 And a young he-goat from the goats - one for a sin offering, to atone for you;
NUM 29:6 besides the whole burnt offerings of the new moon, and their sacrifice offerings, and their libations, and the continual whole burnt offering, and their sacrifice offerings, and their libations according to their interpretation for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD.
NUM 29:7 And the tenth of this month shall be a holy summoning to you. And you shall afflict your souls, and all work you shall not do.
NUM 29:8 And you shall bring whole burnt offerings for a scent of a pleasant aroma yield offering to the LORD - one calf of the oxen, one ram, seven lambs of a year old - they shall be unblemished to you.
NUM 29:9 Their sacrifice offering shall be of fine flour being prepared in olive oil - three tenths to the one calf, and two tenths to the one ram,
NUM 29:10 a tenth tithe to the one lamb, for the seven lambs;
NUM 29:11 and one young he-goat from the goats for a sin offering to atone for you; besides the one for the sin offering of the atonement, and the continual whole burnt offering, its sacrifice offering, and its libation according to the interpretation - a yield offering to the LORD.
NUM 29:12 And the fifteenth day of this seventh month will be a holy summoning to you; all servile work you shall not do, and you shall solemnize it as a holiday to the LORD for seven days.
NUM 29:13 And you shall bring whole burnt offerings, a yield offering for a scent of pleasant aroma to the LORD. On the first day - three and ten calves of the oxen, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old - they shall be unblemished.
NUM 29:14 Their sacrifice offerings shall be of fine flour being prepared in olive oil - three tenths to the one calf to the thirteen calves, and two tenths to the one ram for the two rams,
NUM 29:15 and a tenth tithe to the one lamb for the four and ten lambs;
NUM 29:16 and one young he-goat of the goats for a sin offering, besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:17 And the second day - twelve calves of oxen, two rams, four and ten unblemished lambs of a year old,
NUM 29:18 their sacrifice offering, and their libation to the calves, and to the rams, and to the lambs according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:19 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering; besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations;
NUM 29:20 the third day - eleven calves, two rams, four and ten unblemished lambs of a year old,
NUM 29:21 their sacrifice offering, and their libation to the calves, and to the rams, and to the lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:22 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering; besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:23 The fourth day - ten calves, two rams, four and ten unblemished lambs of a year old,
NUM 29:24 their sacrifice offerings, and their libations to the calves, and to the rams, and to the lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:25 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering, besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:26 The fifth day - nine calves, two rams, four and ten unblemished lambs of a year old;
NUM 29:27 their sacrifice offerings, and their libations to the calves, and to the rams, and to the lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:28 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering, besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:29 The sixth day - eight calves, two rams, fourteen unblemished lambs of a year old,
NUM 29:30 their sacrifice offerings, and their libations to the calves, and to the rams, and to the lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:31 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering, besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:32 The seventh day - seven calves, two rams, fourteen unblemished lambs of a year old;
NUM 29:33 and their sacrifice offerings, and their libations to the calves, and to the rams, and to the lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:34 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering, besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:35 And the eighth day will be a holiday recess to you. All servile work you shall not do on it.
NUM 29:36 And you shall lead forward whole burnt offerings for a scent of pleasant aroma, yield offerings to the LORD - one calf, one ram, seven unblemished lambs of a year old;
NUM 29:37 their sacrifice offerings, and their libations to the calf, and to the ram, and to the lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation;
NUM 29:38 and a young he-goat of the goats - one for a sin offering, besides the continual whole burnt offering, their sacrifice offerings, and their libations.
NUM 29:39 These things you shall do to the LORD in your holidays, besides your vows, and your voluntary offerings, and your whole burnt offerings, and your sacrifice offerings, and your libations, and your deliverance offerings.
NUM 29:40 And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel concerning all as many things as the LORD gave charge to Moses.
NUM 30:1 And Moses spoke to the rulers of the tribes of the sons of Israel, saying, This is the saying which the LORD ordered.
NUM 30:2 A man - a man who ever should vow a vow to the LORD, or should swear by an oath, or should confirm a set of limits upon his life, he shall not profane his word; all as many things as should come forth from out of his mouth he shall do.
NUM 30:3 And if a woman should vow a vow to the LORD, or confirm a set of limits in the house of her father in her youth;
NUM 30:4 and her father should hear her vows, and her sets of limits which she confirmed on her life, and her father should remain silent, then all the matters of her vows shall stand, and all the sets of limits which she confirmed on her life she shall abide by.
NUM 30:5 But if in shaking his head in dissent her father should dissent in which ever day he should hear her vows, and her sets of limits which she confirmed on her life shall not stand - and the LORD shall clear her, for her father shook his head in dissent.
NUM 30:6 But if in coming to pass she should become a man's wife, and her vows be upon her, according to the distinction from her lips as many things as she confirmed on her life;
NUM 30:7 and her husband should hear, and should remain silent concerning her in which ever day he should hear, then thus shall stand all her vows, and her sets of limits which she confirmed on her life shall stand.
NUM 30:8 But if in shaking his head in dissent her husband should dissent in which ever day he should hear all her vows, and her sets of limits which she confirmed on her life, they shall not abide - for her husband shook his head in dissent concerning her, and the LORD shall clear her.
NUM 30:9 And a vow of a widow, and a woman being cast out, as many things as she should make a vow on her life, shall abide to her.
NUM 30:10 But if in the house of her husband her vow be, or the set of limits on her life with an oath,
NUM 30:11 and her husband should hear, and should remain silent concerning her, and should not shake his head in dissent concerning her, then all her vows shall stand, and all her sets of limits which she confirmed on her life shall stand concerning her.
NUM 30:12 But if in removing her husband should remove them, in which ever day he should hear all as many things as should come forth from out of her lips concerning her vows, and concerning the sets of limits on her life, it shall not remain to her - her husband removed them, and the LORD cleared her.
NUM 30:13 Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict her soul, her husband shall set for her, and her husband shall remove for her.
NUM 30:14 But if in keeping silent he should remain silent at her day by day; then all her vows shall stand to her, and the sets of limits upon her shall stand to her; for he kept silent at her in the day in which he heard.
NUM 30:15 But if removing her husband should remove them after the day which he heard them; then he shall take the sin unto himself.
NUM 30:16 These are the ordinances, as many as the LORD gave charge to Moses, between a husband and between his wife, and between a father and daughter in youth in the house of her father.
NUM 31:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 31:2 Let the sons of Israel avenge with punishment on the Midianites - and at the last you shall be added to your people.
NUM 31:3 And Moses spoke to the people saying, Completely arm your men, and deploy before the LORD against Midian, to render punishment by the LORD to Midian.
NUM 31:4 A thousand from out of a tribe - even a thousand from out of a tribe from out of all tribes of the sons of Israel you send to deploy!
NUM 31:5 And they counted out from out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand from out of a tribe - twelve thousand being armed in battle array.
NUM 31:6 And Moses sent them - a thousand from out of a tribe; even a thousand from out of a tribe with their force, and Phinehas son of Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, and the holy items, and the trumpets in their hands for the signals.
NUM 31:7 And they deployed against Midian as the LORD gave charge to Moses; and they killed every male.
NUM 31:8 And they killed the kings of Midian together with their slain - Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, five kings of Midian. And Balaam son of Beor they killed by the broadsword with their slain.
NUM 31:9 And they despoiled the women of Midian, and their belongings, and their cattle, and all the things procured by them, and despoiled their force.
NUM 31:10 And all their cities in their dwellings, and their properties, they burned by fire.
NUM 31:11 And they took all the plunder, and all their spoils - from man unto beast.
NUM 31:12 And they brought to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to all the sons of Israel, the captivity, and the spoils, and the plunder, into the camp in the wilderness of Moab which is upon the Jordan by Jericho.
NUM 31:13 And Moses came forth, and Eleazar the priest, and all the rulers of the congregation, to meet with them outside the camp.
NUM 31:14 And Moses was provoked to anger with the overseers of the force - commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, the ones coming from out of the battle array of the war.
NUM 31:15 And Moses said to them, Why did you take alive every female?
NUM 31:16 For these were the occasion to the sons of Israel by the word of Balaam of their leaving and overlooking the word of the LORD, because of Peor - and came to pass the calamity in the congregation of the LORD.
NUM 31:17 And now, kill every male among all the chattel! And every woman who knew the marriage-bed of a man kill!
NUM 31:18 And all the chattel of the women who knew not the marriage-bed of a man, take them alive!
NUM 31:19 And you camp outside the camp seven days, every one doing away with a soul! And all having touched the one being pierced shall be purified in the third day, and in the seventh day, you and your captivity.
NUM 31:20 And every wrap-around garment, and every item made of skin, and every work of goat skin, and every wooden item, you shall purify.
NUM 31:21 And Eleazar the priest said to the men of the force coming from out of the battle array of the war, This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 31:22 Besides the gold, and the silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and tin,
NUM 31:23 every thing which shall go through in fire shall be led through in fire, and shall be clean; but only with the water of purification shall it be purified. And all as many as should not travel through fire, shall go through water.
NUM 31:24 And you shall wash the garments on the seventh day, and you shall be clean, and after this you shall enter into the camp.
NUM 31:25 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 31:26 Take the total sum of the spoils of the captivity, from man unto beast, you and Eleazar the priest, and the rulers of the patrimony of the congregation!
NUM 31:27 And you shall divide the spoils between the warriors going forth into the battle array, and between the whole congregation.
NUM 31:28 And you shall offer up the tax to the LORD from the men of the warriors going forth into the battle array; one soul from five hundred of the people, and from the cattle, and from the oxen, and from the sheep, and from the donkeys.
NUM 31:29 From their half you shall take, and shall give to Eleazar the priest the first-fruits of the LORD.
NUM 31:30 And from the half of the ones of the sons of Israel, you shall take one from fifty, from the people, and from the oxen, and from the sheep, and from the donkeys, and from all the cattle, and shall give them to the Levites guarding the watches in the tent of the LORD.
NUM 31:31 And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 31:32 And came to pass the surplus of the plunder which the warrior men despoiled from the sheep - six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and five thousand;
NUM 31:33 and oxen - two and seventy thousand;
NUM 31:34 and donkeys - one and sixty thousand.
NUM 31:35 And souls of peoples from the women who knew not the marriage-bed of a male, all souls - two and thirty thousand.
NUM 31:36 And came to pass the half portion of the ones going forth into the war, of the number of the sheep - three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seven thousand and five hundred.
NUM 31:37 And came to pass the tax to the LORD of the sheep - six hundred and seventy five;
NUM 31:38 and oxen - six and thirty thousand; and their tax to the LORD - two and seventy;
NUM 31:39 and donkeys - thirty thousand and five hundred; and their tax to the LORD - one and sixty;
NUM 31:40 and the souls of people - six and ten thousand; and their tax to the LORD - two and thirty souls.
NUM 31:41 And Moses gave the tax due to the LORD (the separation portion of God) to Eleazar the priest, as the LORD gave orders to Moses,
NUM 31:42 from the half of the sons of Israel whom Moses divided from the men of the warriors.
NUM 31:43 And came to pass the half from the congregation, of the sheep - three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seven thousand and five hundred;
NUM 31:44 and oxen - six and thirty thousand;
NUM 31:45 donkeys - thirty thousand and five hundred;
NUM 31:46 and souls of peoples - six and ten thousand.
NUM 31:47 And Moses took from the half of the sons of Israel, the one from every fifty of the people, and of the cattle, and gave them to the Levites guarding the watches of the tent of the LORD; in which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses.
NUM 31:48 And there came forward to Moses all the ones placed as the commanders of the force - commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds. And they said to Moses,
NUM 31:49 Your servants have taken the total sum of the men of the warriors with us, and not even one dissented of them.
NUM 31:50 And we have brought the gift to the LORD, every man who found an item of gold, and armlet, and bracelet, and ring, and right armband, and wreath, to atone for us before the LORD.
NUM 31:51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from them, every item being worked.
NUM 31:52 And came to pass all the gold for the separation portion which they removed to the LORD - sixteen thousand and seven hundred and fifty shekels from the commanders of thousands, and from the commanders of hundreds.
NUM 31:53 And the men, the warriors, despoiled each unto himself.
NUM 31:54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from the commanders of a thousand, and from the commanders of hundreds, and carried them into the tent of the testimony - a memorial of the sons of Israel before the LORD.
NUM 32:1 And there was a multitude of cattle to the sons of Reuben, and to the sons of Gad - an exceedingly great multitude. And they saw the place of Jazer, and the place of Gilead; and the place was a place of cattle.
NUM 32:2 And the sons of Reuben coming forward, and the sons of Gad, said to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the rulers of the congregation, saying,
NUM 32:3 Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon -
NUM 32:4 the land which the LORD delivered up before the sons of Israel, is land for grazing cattle, and your servants subsist on cattle.
NUM 32:5 And they said, If we find favor before you, give this land to your servants for a possession, and do not cause us to pass over the Jordan!
NUM 32:6 And Moses said to the sons of Gad, and to the sons of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and you sit here?
NUM 32:7 And why do you turn aside the thoughts of the sons of Israel to not pass over into the land which the LORD gives to them?
NUM 32:8 Did not your fathers do thus when I sent them from out of Kadesh Barnea to study the land?
NUM 32:9 And they ascended the Ravine of the Cluster, and studied the land, and separated the heart of the sons of Israel, so as to not enter into the land which the LORD gave to them.
NUM 32:10 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage in that day, and swore by an oath, saying,
NUM 32:11 Shall these men see, (the men ascending from Egypt, from twenty years old and up, having knowledge of the good and the bad,) the land which I swore by an oath to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob? For they did not follow together after me,
NUM 32:12 except Caleb son of Jephunneh, the one being parted, and Joshua the son of Nun - for they followed after the LORD.
NUM 32:13 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage over Israel, and he staggered them in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation doing evil before the LORD was completely consumed.
NUM 32:14 Behold, you rose up in place of your fathers, a confederation of men of sinners, to add still unto the rage of the anger of the LORD against Israel.
NUM 32:15 For shall you be turned away from him to add still to leave him in the wilderness, and act lawlessly against this entire congregation.
NUM 32:16 And they came forward to him, and said, Properties for flocks we shall build here to our cattle, and cities for our chattel.
NUM 32:17 And we, arming ourselves, will be an advance guard in front of the sons of Israel, until when we should lead them into their own place. And our belongings shall dwell in cities being walled, because of the ones dwelling the land.
NUM 32:18 In no way should we return to our dwellings, until whenever the sons of Israel each should divide into his inheritance.
NUM 32:19 And no longer shall we be heir with them from the other side of the Jordan and beyond; for we receive our lots on the other side of the Jordan eastwards.
NUM 32:20 And Moses said to them, If you should do according to this thing, if you should completely arm before the LORD for war,
NUM 32:21 and you yourselves all shall go over the Jordan armed with large shields before the LORD, until his enemy shall be obliterated from his face,
NUM 32:22 and the land shall be dominated before the LORD - then after these things you shall return, and you will be innocent before the LORD, and from Israel. And this land shall be to you for a possession before the LORD.
NUM 32:23 But if you should not do so, you shall sin before the LORD - and you shall know your sin, whenever bad things should overtake you.
NUM 32:24 And thus you shall build to yourselves to them cities for your belongings, and properties for your cattle; and the thing going forth from out of your mouth you shall do.
NUM 32:25 And the sons of Reuben and the the sons of Gad spoke to Moses, saying, Your servants shall do as our master gives charge.
NUM 32:26 Our belongings, and our women, and our possessions, and all our cattle, shall be there in the cities of Gilead.
NUM 32:27 But your servants shall all go over, being armed and being arrayed before the LORD, for war, in which manner the master says.
NUM 32:28 And Moses stood together with them, with Eleazar the priest, and Joshua son of Nun, and the rulers of the patrimony of the tribes of the sons of Israel.
NUM 32:29 And Moses said to them, If the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad should pass over the Jordan with you, every one being armed for war before the LORD, and you should dominate the land before you, then you shall give to them the land of Gilead for a possession.
NUM 32:30 But if they should not pass over being armed with you for war before the LORD, then you shall cause them to pass over with their belongings, and their women, and their cattle in front of you into the land of Canaan - and they shall inherit together with you in the land of Canaan.
NUM 32:31 And the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad answered, saying, As much as the LORD says to his attendants, so we shall do.
NUM 32:32 We will pass over being armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan, and you shall give our possession on the other side of the Jordan.
NUM 32:33 And Moses gave to them, to the sons of Gad, and to the sons of Reuben, and to the half tribe of Manasseh of the sons of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land, and the cities with its boundaries - the cities of the land round about.
NUM 32:34 And the sons of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
NUM 32:35 and Shophan, and Jaazer. And they raised them up,
NUM 32:36 and Beth-nimrah, and Beth-haran - fortified cities, and properties of flocks.
NUM 32:37 And the sons of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kirjathaim,
NUM 32:38 and Nebo and Baal-meon, being surrounded with walls, and Shibmah. And they named by their names the names of the cities which they built.
NUM 32:39 And a son of Machir son of Manasseh went into Gilead, and took it, and destroyed the Amorite dwelling in it.
NUM 32:40 And Moses gave Gilead to Machir son of Manasseh; and he dwelt there.
NUM 32:41 And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took their properties, and named them Properties of Jair.
NUM 32:42 And Nobah went and took Kenath, and her towns, and named them Nobah, after his name.
NUM 33:1 And these are the stages of the sons of Israel, as they came forth from out of the land of Egypt with their force by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
NUM 33:2 And Moses wrote the things of their departures, and the things of their stages through the word of the LORD. And these are the stages of their goings.
NUM 33:3 Departing from out of Rameses in the first month, the fifteenth day of the first month; the next day of the passover the sons of Israel came forth with a high hand before all the Egyptians.
NUM 33:4 And the Egyptians buried of theirs having died, all as many as the LORD struck, all the first-born in the land of Egypt. And among their gods the LORD executed punishment.
NUM 33:5 And the sons of Israel departing from out of Rameses, camped in Soccoth.
NUM 33:6 And departing from out of Soccoth, and they camped in Etham, which is a part of the wilderness.
NUM 33:7 And departing from out of Etham, and they camped at the mouth of Hiroth, which is before Baal-zephon - and they camped before Migdol.
NUM 33:8 And departing before Hiroth, and they passed over between the sea into the wilderness, and went a journey three days through the wilderness themselves, and camped in Bitterness.
NUM 33:9 And departing from out of Bitterness, and they came to Elim. And in Elim were twelve springs of waters, and seventy trunks of palm trees; and they camped there by the water.
NUM 33:10 And departing from Elim, and they camped by the red sea.
NUM 33:11 And departing from the red sea, and they camped in the wilderness of Sin.
NUM 33:12 And departing from out of the wilderness of Sin, and they camped in Dophkah.
NUM 33:13 And departing from out of Dophkah, and they camped in Alush.
NUM 33:14 And departing from Alush, and they camped in Rephidim, and there was not water there for the people to drink.
NUM 33:15 And departing from out of Rephidim, and they camped in the wilderness of Sinai.
NUM 33:16 And departing from out of the wilderness of Sinai, and they camped at Tombs of the Desire.
NUM 33:17 And departing from out of Tombs of the Desire, and they camped in Hazeroth.
NUM 33:18 And departing from Hazeroth, and they camped in Rithmah.
NUM 33:19 And departing from out of Rithmah, and they camped in Rimmon Parez.
NUM 33:20 And departing from out of Rimmon Parez, and they camped in Libnah.
NUM 33:21 And departing from out of Libnah, and they camped in Rissah.
NUM 33:22 And departing from out of Rissah, and they camped in Kehelathah.
NUM 33:23 And departing from out of Kehelathah, and they camped in Shapher.
NUM 33:24 And departing from out of Shapher, and they camped in Haradah.
NUM 33:25 And departing from out of Haradah, and they camped in Makheloth.
NUM 33:26 And departing from out of Makheloth, and they camped in Tahath.
NUM 33:27 And departing from out of Tahath, and they camped in Tarah.
NUM 33:28 And departing from out of Tarah, and they camped in Mithcah.
NUM 33:29 And departing from out of Mithcah, and they camped in Hashmonah.
NUM 33:30 And departing from out of Hashmonah, and they camped in Moseroth.
NUM 33:31 And departing from out of Moseroth, and they camped in Bene-jaakan.
NUM 33:32 And departing from out of Bene-jaakan, and they camped in the mountain of Hagidgad.
NUM 33:33 And departing from out of the mountain of Hagidgad, and they camped in Jobathah.
NUM 33:34 And departing from Jobathah, and they camped in Ebronah.
NUM 33:35 And departing from Ebronah, and they camped in Ezion Gaber.
NUM 33:36 And departing from out of Ezion Gaber, and they camped in the wilderness of Zin; and departing from out of the wilderness of Zin, it is Kadesh.
NUM 33:37 And departing from out of Kadesh, and they camped in Hor the mountain, neighboring the land of Edom.
NUM 33:38 And Aaron the priest ascended into the mountain by order of the LORD, and died there in the fortieth year of the exodus of the sons of Israel from out of the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, day one of the month.
NUM 33:39 And Aaron was three and twenty and a hundred years old when he died in Hor the mountain.
NUM 33:40 And the Canaanite king Arad heard; and this one dwelt in the land of Canaan, when the sons of Israel entered.
NUM 33:41 And departing from Hor the mountain, and they camped in Zalmonah.
NUM 33:42 And departing from out of Zalmonah, and they camped in Punon.
NUM 33:43 And departing from out of Punon, and they camped in Oboth.
NUM 33:44 And departing from Oboth, and they camped in Gai on the other side upon the boundaries of Moab.
NUM 33:45 And departing from out of Gai, and they camped in Dibon Gad.
NUM 33:46 And departing from out of Dibon Gad, and they camped in Almon Diblathaim.
NUM 33:47 And departing from out of Almon Diblathaim, and they camped upon the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
NUM 33:48 And departing from the mountains of Abarim, and they camped upon the descent of Moab, at the Jordan by Jericho.
NUM 33:49 And they camped by the Jordan, between Jesimoth unto Abel-shittim by the descent of Moab.
NUM 33:50 And the LORD spoke to Moses near the descent of Moab by the Jordan near Jericho, saying,
NUM 33:51 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, You pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan!
NUM 33:52 And you shall destroy all the ones dwelling in the land before your face. And you shall lift away their sacred heights; and all their molten idols - you shall destroy them; and all their sacred monuments you shall lift away.
NUM 33:53 And you shall destroy the ones dwelling the land, and you shall dwell in it. For to you I have given their land by lot.
NUM 33:54 And you shall inherit the land by lot, according to your tribes. To the many you shall multiply their possession, and to the lesser you shall give less for their possession. To what ever part his name should come forth by lot, there his possession will be - according to the tribes of your patrimony you shall inherit.
NUM 33:55 And if you should not destroy the ones dwelling upon the land from your face; then it shall be whom ever you should leave behind of them shall be barbs in your eyes, and arrows in your sides, and shall be an enemy to you upon the land upon which you dwell.
NUM 33:56 And it will be in so far as I had determined to do to them, I shall do to you.
NUM 34:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 34:2 Give charge to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, You enter into the land of Canaan! This will be to you for an inheritance - the land of Canaan with its boundaries.
NUM 34:3 And it shall be to you the side towards the south from the wilderness of Zin unto being next to Edom - and it shall be to you the boundaries towards the south from the part of the salty sea from the east.
NUM 34:4 And the borders shall encircle you from the south to the ascending of Akrabbim, and shall go by Ennak. And its outer reaches will be towards the south - Kadesh Barnea, and shall come forth unto the property of Addar, and shall go by Azmon.
NUM 34:5 And it shall encircle the borders from Azmon to the rushing stream of Egypt, and the outer reaches will be the sea.
NUM 34:6 And the boundaries of the west will be to you - the great sea shall define the bounds. This will be to you the boundaries of the west.
NUM 34:7 And this will be to you the boundaries towards the north - from the great sea you shall measure out them to yourselves by the mountain.
NUM 34:8 And from mount Hor you shall measure out to yourselves entering into Hamath; and the outer reaches of it will be the borders of Zedad.
NUM 34:9 And the borders shall go forth to Ziphron, and its outer reaches will be Hazer-enan. This will be to you the borders from the north.
NUM 34:10 And you shall measure out to you yourselves the borders of the east from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
NUM 34:11 And the borders shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, from the east by the springs. And the borders shall go down from Beel by the back of the sea of Chinnereth by the east.
NUM 34:12 And the borders shall go down upon the Jordan, and the outer reaches will be the salty sea. This shall be to you the land and its borders round about.
NUM 34:13 And Moses gave charge to the sons of Israel, saying, This is the land which you shall inherit it by lot, in which manner the LORD gave orders to give it to the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh.
NUM 34:14 For the tribe of the sons of Reuben received it according to the houses of their patrimony, and the tribe of the sons of Gad according to the houses of their patrimony, and the half tribe of Manasseh took their lots.
NUM 34:15 Two tribes and a half tribe took their lots on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho from the south towards the east.
NUM 34:16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 34:17 These are the names of the men who shall allot to you the land - Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
NUM 34:18 And one ruler from out of a tribe you shall take to allot to you the land.
NUM 34:19 And these are the names of the men of the tribe of Judah - Caleb son of Jephunneh.
NUM 34:20 Of the tribe of Simeon - Shemuel son of Ammihud.
NUM 34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin - Elidad son of Chislon.
NUM 34:22 Of the tribe of Dan - ruler Bukki son of Jogli.
NUM 34:23 Of the sons of Joseph, of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh - ruler Hanniel son of Ephod.
NUM 34:24 Of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim - ruler Kemuel son of Shiphtan.
NUM 34:25 Of the tribe of Zebulun - ruler Elizaphan son of Parnach.
NUM 34:26 Of the tribe of the sons of Issachar - ruler Paltiel son of Azzan.
NUM 34:27 Of the tribe of the sons of Asher - ruler Ahihud son of Shelomi.
NUM 34:28 Of the tribe of Naphtali - ruler Pedahel son of Ammihud.
NUM 34:29 These are the ones whom the LORD gave charge to divide the inheritance to the sons of Israel in the land of Canaan.
NUM 35:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses upon the descent of Moab, by the Jordan, across from Jericho, saying,
NUM 35:2 Give orders to the sons of Israel! And they shall give to the Levites from the lots of their possession cities to dwell in - and the outskirts of the cities round about them you shall give to the Levites.
NUM 35:3 And the cities shall be to dwell in. And their separation offerings of lands will be for their cattle, and all their four-footed animals.
NUM 35:4 And the lands falling in with the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall be from the wall of the city and outside - a thousand cubits round about.
NUM 35:5 And you shall measure outside the city the side towards the east - two thousand cubits, and the side towards the south - two thousand cubits; and the side towards the west - two thousand cubits; and the side towards the north - two thousand cubits; and the city between this will be to you, and the adjoining areas of the cities.
NUM 35:6 And the cities which you shall give to the Levites are the six cities of the places of refuge, which you shall give for the one man-slaying to flee there - and in addition to these, forty two cities.
NUM 35:7 All the cities which you shall give to the Levites are forty and eight cities - these and their outskirts.
NUM 35:8 And the cities which you shall give from the possession of the sons of Israel; from the ones having many will be many; and from the ones having less will be less - each according to his inheritance which they shall allot shall give from the cities to the Levites.
NUM 35:9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
NUM 35:10 Speak to the sons of Israel! And you shall say to them, You are passing over the Jordan into the land of Canaan.
NUM 35:11 And you shall draw apart to you cities for them; it will be places of refuge to you for the man-slayer to flee there - any one striking a soul unintentionally.
NUM 35:12 And they will be cities for you as places of refuge from the one acting as next of kin for blood, that in no way should the one man-slaying die until whenever he should stand before the congregation for judgment.
NUM 35:13 And the cities which you shall appoint - the six cities will be places of refuge to you.
NUM 35:14 Three cities you shall appoint on the other side of the Jordan, and three cities you shall appoint in the land of Canaan.
NUM 35:15 A place of refuge it will be to the sons of Israel, and to the foreigner, and to the sojourner among you. These cities will be for a place of refuge to flee there, to all striking a soul unintentionally.
NUM 35:16 And if by an item of iron one should strike him, and he should come to an end, he is a murderer - unto death let the murderer be put to death!
NUM 35:17 And if by a stone from out of the hand in which one should die by it, then the one who should strike him even he should die, he is a murderer - unto death let the murderer be put to death!
NUM 35:18 And if by an item of wood from out of his hand of which one should die, as he should strike him, and one should die, he is a murderer - unto death the murderer shall die!
NUM 35:19 The one acting as next of kin for blood, this one shall kill the one man-slaying - whenever he meets him, this one shall kill him.
NUM 35:20 And if through hatred he should thrust him through, or should cast upon him any item by ambush, and he should die,
NUM 35:21 or through vehement anger he strikes him by the hand, and he should die - to death let the one striking be put to death, he is a murderer! The one acting as next of kin for the blood shall kill the one man-slaying in the meeting up with him.
NUM 35:22 But if suddenly, he should thrust him through not by hatred, or cast upon him any item, not from ambush,
NUM 35:23 or any stone in which he shall die by it, not knowing, and he should fall upon him, and he should die, but he was not his enemy, nor seeking to do evil against him -
NUM 35:24 then the congregation shall judge between the one striking and between the one acting as next of kin for blood according to these cases.
NUM 35:25 And the congregation shall rescue the one man-slaying from the one acting as next of kin for blood. And the congregation shall restore him into the city of his place of refuge, of which he took refuge. And he shall dwell there until whenever the great priest should die, whom they anointed him with the holy oil.
NUM 35:26 But if by an exit the one man-slaying should come forth from the borders of the city in which he took refuge there,
NUM 35:27 and the one acting as next of kin for blood should find him outside the borders of the city of his refuge, and the one acting as next of kin for blood should slaughter the one man-slaying; he is not liable.
NUM 35:28 For in the city of his refuge let him dwell until the great priest should die! And after the dying of the great priest the one man-slaying will be able to return unto the land of his possession.
NUM 35:29 And these things will be to you for an ordinance of judgment unto your generations in all your dwellings.
NUM 35:30 Every one striking a soul, with witnesses - you shall slaughter the one man-slaying; and one witness shall not witness for a soul to die.
NUM 35:31 And you shall not take ransoms for a soul from the one murdering - the one being liable is to be done away with; for unto death he shall be put to death.
NUM 35:32 And you shall not take ransoms for the one fleeing into a city of the places of refuge, to again dwell in the land, until whenever the great priest should die.
NUM 35:33 And in no way should you pollute with murder the land upon which you dwell upon it; for this blood pollutes the land by murder; and the land shall not be atoned from the blood having been poured out upon it, but it shall be upon the blood of the one pouring it out.
NUM 35:34 And you shall not defile the land upon which you dwell upon it, of which I should encamp among you - for I am the LORD encamping in the midst of the sons of Israel.
NUM 36:1 And came forward the rulers of the fathers' side of the tribes of the sons of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, from out of the tribe of the sons of Joseph, and spoke before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the rulers of the houses of the patrimony of the sons of Israel.
NUM 36:2 And they said, The LORD gave charge to our master to give the land of inheritance by lot to the sons of Israel. And the LORD gave orders to the master to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters.
NUM 36:3 And they will be to one of the tribes of the sons of Israel for wives, and their lot shall be removed from out of the possession of our fathers, and thus they shall be added for an inheritance for the tribe in which ever they should become wives - and from out of the lot of our inheritance it shall be removed.
NUM 36:4 And if there should be the release of the sons of Israel, then their inheritance shall be added unto the inheritance of the tribe in which ever the women become wives - and from the inheritance of the tribe of our family their inheritance shall be removed.
NUM 36:5 And Moses gave charge to the sons of Israel, through the order of the LORD, saying, Thus to the tribe of the sons of Joseph, say,
NUM 36:6 This is the saying which the LORD ordered to the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Of whom ever it is pleasing before them let them be wives, only from out of the people of their father let them be wives!
NUM 36:7 And the inheritance to the sons of Israel shall not be moved around from tribe to tribe - for each in the inheritance of the tribe of his family the sons of Israel shall cleave to.
NUM 36:8 And every daughter acting as next of kin of an inheritance from out of the tribes of the sons of Israel, they shall be wives to one of the ones from out of the people of her father, that the sons of Israel should be acting as next of kin, each in the inheritance of his father.
NUM 36:9 And the lot shall not be moved around from out of one tribe to another tribe, but each unto his inheritance shall the sons of Israel cleave to.
NUM 36:10 In which manner the LORD ordered Moses, thus the daughters of Zelophehad did.
NUM 36:11 And it came to pass Mahlah, Tizrah, and Hoglah, and Milchah, and Noah, daughters of Zelophehad became wives to their cousins of the people of Manasseh of the sons of Joseph.
NUM 36:12 And their inheritance came to the tribe of the people of their father.
NUM 36:13 These are the commandments, and the ordinances, and the judgments, which the LORD gave charge by the hand of Moses to the sons of Israel at the descent of Moab near the Jordan by Jericho.
DEU 1:1 These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel on the other side of the Jordan in the wilderness, towards the west neighboring the red sea, between Paran, Tophel, and Laban, and Canyons, and Place Abounding in Gold.
DEU 1:2 ( It is a journey eleven days from Horeb by mount Seir unto Kadesh Barnea.)
DEU 1:3 And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, day one of the month, Moses spoke to all the sons of Israel according to all as much as the LORD gave charge to him for them;
DEU 1:4 after the striking of Sihon king of the Amorites dwelling in Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan dwelling in Astaroth and in Edrei.
DEU 1:5 On the other side of the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses began to make clear this law, saying,
DEU 1:6 The LORD our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, Let it be enough to you dwelling in this mountain!
DEU 1:7 You turn and depart, and enter into the mountain of the Amorites, and to all the ones adjacent the wilderness, to the mountain, and the plain, and to the south, and the coast land of the Canaanites, and Antilebanon, unto the river of the great Euphrates!
DEU 1:8 Behold, I have delivered up the land before you! Having entered, inherit the land which I swore by an oath to your fathers, to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them and to their seed after them!
DEU 1:9 And I said to you in that time, saying, I will not be able alone to bear you.
DEU 1:10 The LORD your God multiplied you, and behold, you are today as the stars of the heaven in multitude.
DEU 1:11 ( The LORD God of your fathers may he add to you as you are a thousand times more, and bless you in so far as he spoke to you!)
DEU 1:12 How shall I be able alone to bear your toil, and support you, and your disputes?
DEU 1:13 Appoint to yourselves wise men, and having higher knowledge, and discerning among your tribes, and I will ordain them over you as your leaders!
DEU 1:14 And you answered to me, and said, The saying is good which you spoke to do.
DEU 1:15 And I took from out of you wise men, and having knowledge, and discerning, for your tribes. And I ordained them to take the lead over you - commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, and commanders of fifties, and commanders of tens, and judicial recorders for your judges.
DEU 1:16 And I gave charge to your judges in that time, saying, Hold a hearing between your brothers, and judge justly between a man and between his brother, and between the foreigner with him!
DEU 1:17 You shall not discriminate for a person in a judgment; concerning the small and according to the great you shall judge equally. In no way shall you keep back justice by accepting the person of a man, for the judgment is of God. And the matter which ever might be hard for you, you shall bear it to me, and I will hear it.
DEU 1:18 And I gave charge to you at that time all the words which you shall do.
DEU 1:19 And departing from out of Horeb, we went through all that great and dreadful wilderness, which you beheld by the way of the mountain of the Amorite, in so far as the LORD our God gave charge to us; and we came unto Kadesh Barnea.
DEU 1:20 And I said to you, You came unto the mountain of the Amorite, which the LORD our God gives to you.
DEU 1:21 Behold, the LORD your God has delivered up the land to us before your face! Ascending, you inherit it in which manner the LORD God of your fathers spoke to you! You should not fear nor be timid.
DEU 1:22 And you all came forward to me, and said, You should send men in front of us, and let them explore the land for us, and let them announce to us an answer for the way through which we shall ascend by it, and the cities into which we shall enter into them!
DEU 1:23 And the saying was pleasing before me. And I took from out of you twelve men - one man according to tribe.
DEU 1:24 And turning they ascended into the mountain, and came unto Ravine of Cluster, and spied it.
DEU 1:25 And they took in their hands of the fruit of the land, and carried it to you, and said, The land is good which the LORD our God gives to us.
DEU 1:26 And you wanted not to ascend, but you resisted persuasion against the word of the LORD your God.
DEU 1:27 And you complained in your tents, and said, Because the LORD detested us, he led us out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites, and to utterly destroy us.
DEU 1:28 Where do we ascend? And our brothers caused our heart to abstain, saying, It is a great and populous nation, and mightier than we; and great cities, and walled unto the heaven; moreover also we saw sons of giants there.
DEU 1:29 And I said to you, Do not be alarmed, nor fear from them!
DEU 1:30 The LORD your God going forth before your face, he will join in making war against them with you, according to all as much as he did for you in the land of Egypt;
DEU 1:31 and in this wilderness, which you beheld how as the LORD your God nurtured you, as if any man might nurture his son, according to all the way into which you were gone, until you came unto this place.
DEU 1:32 And in this word you entrusted not to the LORD your God,
DEU 1:33 who goes forth in front of you in the way, to choose to you a place, guiding you by fire at night, showing to you the way by which you go by it, and with a cloud by day.
DEU 1:34 And the LORD heard the voice of your words, and being provoked swore by an oath, saying,
DEU 1:35 Shall any of these wicked men see this good land which I swore by an oath to their fathers?
DEU 1:36 Except Caleb son of Jephunneh, this one shall see it; and to this one I shall give the land upon which he mounted, and to his sons, because of joining to himself the things of the LORD.
DEU 1:37 And the LORD was enraged at me because of you, saying, Nor should you in any way enter there.
DEU 1:38 Joshua son of Nun, the one standing beside you, this one shall enter there; you strengthen him! for he shall allot it to Israel and your children, which you said to be for ravaging.
DEU 1:39 And every new child, whoever does not know today good or bad, this one shall enter there. And to these I shall give it, and to them they shall inherit it.
DEU 1:40 And you, in turning, encamped in the wilderness, the way near the red sea.
DEU 1:41 And you answered and said to me, We sinned before the LORD our God. We, in ascending, shall wage war according to all as much as the LORD our God gave charge to us. And each taking up the items for his warfare, and gathering together, ascended into the mountain.
DEU 1:42 And the LORD said to me, Say to them, You shall not ascend, nor wage war, for I am not with you; lest you shall be broken before your enemies.
DEU 1:43 And I spoke to you; and you listened not to me, and violated the word of the LORD, and pressing forward ascended unto the mountain.
DEU 1:44 And the Amorite dwelling in that mountain came forth to meet you. And they pursued you as the bees may do, and pierced you from Seir unto Hormah.
DEU 1:45 And sitting, you wept before the LORD your God; and the LORD listened not to your voice, nor took heed to you.
DEU 1:46 And you laid in wait in Kadesh many days, as many days as at some other time you laid in wait.
DEU 2:1 And turning, we departed into the wilderness by way of the red sea, in which manner the LORD spoke to me. And we encircled mount Seir many days.
DEU 2:2 And the LORD said to me,
DEU 2:3 Your encircling this mountain is enough - turn then towards the north!
DEU 2:4 And you give charge to the people, saying, You go through the borders of your brothers, of the sons of Esau dwelling in Seir! And they shall fear you, and shall be exceedingly cautious of you.
DEU 2:5 You shall not join against them for war; for not in any way will I give to you of their land, nor a stool for your foot; for by lot I have given to Esau mount Seir.
DEU 2:6 With silver buy foods from them and eat! And you receive from them a water measure for silver - and you shall drink.
DEU 2:7 For the LORD your God blessed you in every work of your hands. Determine how you went through that great and dreadful wilderness! Behold, forty years the LORD your God was with you; you wanted not of a thing.
DEU 2:8 And we went by our brothers the sons of Esau dwelling in Seir, by the way of the wilderness from Aelon, and from Ezion Gaber; and turning we went by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
DEU 2:9 And the LORD said to me, Do not hate the Moabites, and do not join together against them in war! For in no way will I give to you of their land. For I have given Aroer by lot to the sons of Lot to inherit.
DEU 2:10 The Emims prior laid in wait upon it, a great and populous nation, and strong, as the Anakims.
DEU 2:11 And these shall be considered of the Raphaim as also the Anakims; and the Moabites named them Emims.
DEU 2:12 And in Seir the Horite formerly laid in wait. And the sons of Esau destroyed them, and obliterated them from their face. And they settled in place of them; in which manner Israel did the land of his inheritance, which the LORD gave to them.
DEU 2:13 Now then, I said, Rise up, and depart, and come near the ravine of Zared! And we went by the ravine of Zered.
DEU 2:14 And the days which we passed from Kadesh Barnea, until of which we went by the ravine of Zered - thirty eight years; until of which all the generation of men of war perished, dying from the camp, as the LORD God swore by an oath to them.
DEU 2:15 And the hand of God was upon them, to completely consume them from out of the midst of the camp, until of which they perished.
DEU 2:16 And it came to pass, as soon as all the ones dying fell - men warriors, from out of the midst of the people,
DEU 2:17 that the LORD spoke to me, saying,
DEU 2:18 You shall pass over today the borders of Moab - the Aroer.
DEU 2:19 And you shall lead near the sons of Ammon. Do not hate them, nor join against them in war! For not in any way will I give from the land of the sons of Ammon to you by lot - for to the sons of Lot I have given it by lot.
DEU 2:20 It shall be considered land of Raphaim, for even the Raphaim formerly dwelt upon it. And the Ammonites named them Zummim -
DEU 2:21 a great and populous nation, and mightier than you, as also the Anakims. And the LORD destroyed them before their face; and they inherited them, and were settled there in place of them until this day,
DEU 2:22 even as they did inherit the sons of Esau dwelling in Seir, in which manner he obliterated the Horite from their face; and they inherited them, and were settled in place of them until this day.
DEU 2:23 And the Hivites dwelling in Aseroth unto Gaza, and the Cappadocians coming forth from out of Cappadocia, obliterated them, and were settled in place of them.
DEU 2:24 Now then, rise up and depart, and go by the ravine of Arnon! Behold, I have delivered up into your hands Sihon king of Heshbon the Amorite and his land. Commence to inherit it! Join against him in war!
DEU 2:25 On this day commence to give the trembling of you and the fear of you upon the face of all the nations underneath the heaven! Whoever hearing your name shall be disturbed, and shall have pangs of anguish before your face.
DEU 2:26 And I sent ambassadors from out of the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon with peaceable words, saying,
DEU 2:27 I will go through your land. I will go in the journey, I will not turn aside right nor left.
DEU 2:28 You shall give to me foods for silver, and I shall eat; and you shall give water to me for silver, and I shall drink; only that I shall go by on the feet,
DEU 2:29 (as the sons of Esau dwelling in Seir did to me, and the Moabites dwelling in Ar;) until whenever I should go by the Jordan into the land which the LORD our God gives us.
DEU 2:30 And Sihon king of Heshbon wanted not us to go by through his land - for the LORD our God hardened his spirit, and strengthened his heart, that he should be delivered up into your hands, as in this day.
DEU 2:31 And the LORD said to me, Behold, I have begun to deliver up before your face Sihon king of Heshbon the Amorite, and his land. Commence to inherit his land!
DEU 2:32 And came forth Sihon king of Heshbon to meet us, he and all his people, for war at Jahaz.
DEU 2:33 And the LORD our God delivered him before our face, into our hands; and we struck him, and his sons, and all his people.
DEU 2:34 And we held all his cities in that time, and utterly destroyed every city - next also their women and their children we did not leave behind for taking alive.
DEU 2:35 Except the cattle we despoiled for ourselves, and the spoils of the cities we took,
DEU 2:36 From out of Aroer, which is by the bank of the rushing stream Arnon, and the city being in the ravine, and unto mount Gilead, there was not a city which evaded us - the LORD our God delivered up all into our hands.
DEU 2:37 Except in the land of the sons of Ammon we did not draw near (all the parts falling in with the stream Jabbok, and the cities in the mountainous area) in so far as the LORD our God gave charge to us.
DEU 3:1 And turning, we ascended the way into Bashan. And came forth Og king of Bashan to meet us, he and all his people for war at Edrei.
DEU 3:2 And the LORD said to me, You should not fear him - for into your hands I will deliver him, and all his people, and all his land. And you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon.
DEU 3:3 And the LORD our God delivered him into our hands - even Og king of Bashan, and all his people. And we struck him until there was not left behind any of his seed.
DEU 3:4 And we held all of his cities in that time; there was not a city which we did not take from them - sixty cities, all the places round about Argob, of king Og in Bashan.
DEU 3:5 All these cities were fortified with high walls, gates, and bars; besides the cities of the Perizzites - very many.
DEU 3:6 We utterly destroyed them as we did Sihon king of Heshbon. And we utterly destroyed every city - next also the women and the children,
DEU 3:7 and all the cattle; and the spoils of the cities we despoiled for ourselves.
DEU 3:8 And we took in that time the land from out of the hands of the two kings of the Amorites, who were on the other side of the Jordan - from the rushing stream of Arnon unto mount Hermon.
DEU 3:9 (The Phoenicians named Hermon - Sirion; but the Amorite named it Shenir;)
DEU 3:10 all the cities of Misor, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, unto Salchah and Edrei - cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
DEU 3:11 For only Og king of Bashan was left from the Rephaim; behold his bed is a bed of iron; behold this is in the Akra of the sons of Ammon - nine cubits was the length of it, and four cubits the breadth of it, in the cubit of a man.
DEU 3:12 And that land we inherited in that time from Aroer, which is by the bank of the stream Arnon, and the half of the mountain of Gilead. And his cities I gave to Reuben and Gad.
DEU 3:13 And the remainder of Gilead, and all Bashan - the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half tribe of Manasseh; and all the place round about Argob - all that Bashan shall be considered the land of Raphaim.
DEU 3:14 And Jair, son of Manasseh, took all the place round about Argob unto the borders of the Geshurites and Maachathites; and he named them after his name - Bashan Havoth Jair, until this day.
DEU 3:15 And to Machir I gave Gilead.
DEU 3:16 And to Reuben and to Gad I gave from Gilead unto the rushing stream Arnon, between the rushing stream's border and unto the Jabbok - and the rushing streams are the border to the sons of Ammon.
DEU 3:17 And the wilderness and the Jordan are the border from Chinnereth, and unto the sea of the wilderness - the salty sea by Ashdoth of Pisgah from the east.
DEU 3:18 And I gave charge to you at that time, saying, The LORD your God has given to you this land by lot. Arming yourselves, go forth before the face of your brothers of the sons of Israel - every one able!
DEU 3:19 Except your wives, and your children, and your cattle, (for I know there are many cattle to you,) let dwell at your cities in which I gave to you,
DEU 3:20 until whenever the LORD your God should rest your brothers, as also you, and they should have inherited also themselves the land which the LORD your God gives to you on the other side of the Jordan - then each shall turn back to his inheritance, which I have given to you.
DEU 3:21 And to Joshua I gave charge at that time, saying, Your eyes have seen all as much as the LORD our God did to these two kings - so the LORD shall do to all the kingdoms unto which you passed over there.
DEU 3:22 You shall not have fear of them - for the LORD our God himself shall wage war for you.
DEU 3:23 And I besought the LORD in that time, saying,
DEU 3:24 O Lord, O LORD, you began to show to your attendant your strength, and your power, and the fortified hand, and the high arm. For what God is in the heaven or upon the earth who shall do as you did yourself, according to your works, and according to your strength?
DEU 3:25 Passing over then, I will see this good land - the one being on the other side of the Jordan; this good mountain, and the Antilebanon.
DEU 3:26 And the LORD overlooked me because of you, and listened not to me. And the LORD said to me, Let it be enough for you to not add yet to speak to me on this matter!
DEU 3:27 Ascend upon the top of the dressed stone, and lift up your eyes towards the west, and the north, and the south, and the east, and behold with your eyes! for you shall not pass over this Jordan.
DEU 3:28 And you give charge to Joshua, and strengthen him, and comfort him - for this one shall pass over before the face of this people, and he shall allot to them the land which you have seen!
DEU 3:29 And we laid in wait in a grove in the vicinity of the house of Peor.
DEU 4:1 And now, O Israel, hear the ordinances and the judgments, as many as I teach you today to do, that you should live, and manifoldly multiply! And entering you should inherit the land which the LORD God of your fathers gives to you.
DEU 4:2 You shall not add to the saying which I give charge to you, and you shall not remove from it. Guard the commandments of the LORD your God, as many as I give charge to you today!
DEU 4:3 Your eyes have seen all as many things as the LORD our God did to Baal-peor. For every man, whoever went after Baal-peor, the LORD your God obliterated him from out of you.
DEU 4:4 But you, the ones joining with the LORD your God, all live today.
DEU 4:5 Behold, I have shown to you ordinances and judgments, as the LORD my God gave charge to me, to do thus for you in the land into which you enter there to inherit it.
DEU 4:6 And you shall guard and shall do; for this is your wisdom and your understanding before all the nations, as many as should hear all these ordinances. Then they shall say, Behold, this great nation is a wise and intelligent people.
DEU 4:7 For what great nation in which there is to it a God near to them as the LORD our God is in all things in which we should call upon him?
DEU 4:8 And what great nation in which there is to it just ordinances and judgments according to all this law which I give before you today?
DEU 4:9 Take heed to yourself and guard your life exceedingly! You should not forget all the words which your eyes have seen, and let them not leave from your heart all the days of your life! And instruct your sons, and the sons of your sons!
DEU 4:10 especially the day which you stood in the presence of the LORD your God in Horeb, in the day of the assembly. For the LORD said to me, Hold an assembly to me, and let the people hear my words, so that they should learn to fear me all the days which they live upon the earth, and that they should have taught their sons!
DEU 4:11 And you came forward and stood under the mountain; and the mountain burned fire unto the heaven - darkness, dimness, and a storm.
DEU 4:12 And the LORD spoke to you in the mountain from out of the midst of the fire. A voice of utterances you heard, and a representation you beheld not - but only a voice.
DEU 4:13 And he announced to you his covenant, which he gave charge to you to observe - the ten discourses; and he wrote them upon two tablets of stone.
DEU 4:14 And the LORD gave charge to me in that time to teach you ordinances and judgments, for you to do them upon the land into which you enter there to inherit it.
DEU 4:15 And you shall guard exceedingly your lives, that you do not behold any representation in the day in which the LORD spoke to you in Horeb, in the mountain from out of the midst of the fire -
DEU 4:16 lest you should act lawlessly, and make to yourselves a carving representation, any image, a representation of a male or female;
DEU 4:17 a representation of any beast being upon the earth; a representation of any feathered bird which flies under the heaven;
DEU 4:18 a representation of any reptile which crawls upon the earth; a representation of any fish, as many as are in the waters underneath the earth;
DEU 4:19 and lest at any time looking up into the heaven, and beholding the sun, and the moon, and the stars, and all the cosmos of the heaven wandering, you should do obeisance to them, and you should serve to them, which the LORD your God bestowed them to all the nations underneath the heaven.
DEU 4:20 But the LORD God took you, and led you from out of the furnace of iron, out of Egypt, to be to him a hereditary people, as in this day.
DEU 4:21 And the LORD God was enraged with me on account of the things having been said by you. And he swore by an oath that I should not pass over this Jordan, and that I should not enter into the good land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot.
DEU 4:22 For I die in this land, and I shall not pass over this Jordan. But you shall pass over and shall inherit this good land.
DEU 4:23 Take heed to yourselves, lest at any time you should forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which he ordained with you, and you should make to you yourselves a carving representation of all of which the LORD your God gave orders to you not to do!
DEU 4:24 For the LORD your God is a consuming fire - a jealous God.
DEU 4:25 And if you should procreate sons, and sons of your sons, and you should pass time upon the land, and you should act lawlessly, and you should make a carving representation of any thing, and you should do the wicked thing in the presence of the LORD our God to provoke him to anger,
DEU 4:26 I call to testify against you today both the heaven and the earth, that by destruction you shall be destroyed from the land in which you pass over the Jordan there to inherit it. You shall not delay long days upon it, but by obliteration you shall be obliterated.
DEU 4:27 And the LORD shall disseminate you among all the nations, and there shall be left few of you in number among all the nations into which the LORD shall bring you there.
DEU 4:28 And you shall serve there other gods, works of the hands of man - wood and stones, which see not, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
DEU 4:29 And you shall seek after there the LORD your God, and you shall find him whenever you should seek after him with your entire heart, and with your entire soul, in your affliction.
DEU 4:30 And all these words shall find you at the last of the days, and you shall turn towards the LORD your God, and shall hearken to his voice.
DEU 4:31 For God - the LORD your God is pitying and merciful. He will not abandon you, nor in any way will he obliterate you; he will not forget the covenant of your fathers, which he swore by an oath to them.
DEU 4:32 Ask former days having taken place prior of you, from the day of which God created man upon the earth, and upon the one extremity of the heaven unto the other extremity of the heaven! Has anything taken place according to this great thing - if such was heard?
DEU 4:33 If a nation has heard the voice of the living God speaking in the midst of the fire, in which manner you have heard, and lived?
DEU 4:34 if God tested, entering to take to himself a nation from out of the midst of a nation, for a test; and in signs, and in miracles, and by war, and by a fortified hand, and with a high arm, and in great visions, according to all as much as the LORD our God did in Egypt, in the presence of your seeing;
DEU 4:35 so as to see yourself that the LORD your God - he is God, and there is not yet one besides him?
DEU 4:36 From out of the heaven he made his voice audible to you, to correct you. And upon the earth he showed to you his great fire; and his discourses you heard from out of the midst of the fire.
DEU 4:37 It is on account of his loving your fathers, that he chose their seed after them - you. And he led you himself by his great strength from out of Egypt;
DEU 4:38 to utterly destroy great and stronger nations than you before your face; to bring you, and to give to you their land to inherit, as you have today.
DEU 4:39 And you shall know today, and shall turn your mind, that the LORD your God - he is God, in the heaven upward, and upon the earth below, and there is not any besides him.
DEU 4:40 And you shall guard his commandments, and his ordinances, as many as I give charge to you today, that it should be good to you, and to your sons after you, so that you should be many days upon the earth, of which the LORD your God gives to you all the days.
DEU 4:41 Then Moses separated three cities on the other side of the Jordan of the east sun;
DEU 4:42 for the man-killer to flee there - who ever should have slaughtered the neighbor not knowingly, and this one not having detested him before yesterday and the third day before. And he shall take refuge in one of these cities, and he shall live -
DEU 4:43 Bezer in the wilderness, in the land in the plain of Reuben; and Ramoth in Gilead to the of Gadites; and Golan in Bashan to the Manassites.
DEU 4:44 This is the law which Moses placed before the sons of Israel.
DEU 4:45 These are the testimonies, and the ordinances, and the judgments, as many as Moses spoke to the sons of Israel in the wilderness, in their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt,
DEU 4:46 on the other side of the Jordan, in the ravine near the house of Peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, who Moses struck, and the sons of Israel, in their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt.
DEU 4:47 And they inherited his land, and the land of Og king of Bashan, two kings of the Amorites, who were on the other side of the Jordan, according to the rising of the sun -
DEU 4:48 from Aroer, which is upon the bank of the rushing stream Arnon, and upon the mountain of Sion, which is Hermon,
DEU 4:49 all the wilderness on the other side of the Jordan according to the rising of the sun by Asedoth - the one of dressed stone.
DEU 5:1 And Moses called all Israel, and said to them, Hear O Israel, the ordinances and the judgments, as many as I speak in your ears in this day! And you shall learn them, and guard to do them.
DEU 5:2 The LORD your God ordained to you a covenant in Horeb.
DEU 5:3 Not with your fathers the LORD ordained this covenant, but only with you - even you here all living today.
DEU 5:4 Face to face the LORD spoke to you in the mountain from out of the midst of the fire.
DEU 5:5 And I stood between the LORD and you in that time, to announce to you the sayings of the LORD, (for you were in fear from before the fire, and you did not ascend unto the mountain,) saying,
DEU 5:6 I am the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery.
DEU 5:7 There shall not be other gods to you before my face.
DEU 5:8 You shall not make to yourself a carving, nor any representation, as many as are in the heaven upward, and as many as are in the earth below, and as many as are in the waters underneath the earth.
DEU 5:9 You shall not do obeisance to them, nor in any way serve to them. For I am the LORD your God, a jealous God, repaying the sins of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation to the ones detesting me,
DEU 5:10 and executing mercy to thousands loving me, and to the ones keeping my orders.
DEU 5:11 You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain - for not in any way shall the LORD your God cleanse the one taking his name in vain.
DEU 5:12 Guard the day of the Sabbaths to sanctify it, in which manner the LORD your God gave charge to you!
DEU 5:13 Six days you shall work, and do all your works.
DEU 5:14 But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the LORD your God. You shall not do on it any work - you, and your son, and your daughter, your manservant, and your maidservant, your ox, and your beast of burden, and every beast of yours, and the foreigner sojourning among you; that your manservant and your maidservant should have cause to rest as also you.
DEU 5:15 And you shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God led you from there by a fortified hand and with a high arm. On account of this the LORD your God gave orders to you so as for you to guard the day of the Sabbaths, and to sanctify it.
DEU 5:16 Esteem your father and your mother in which manner the LORD your God gave charge to you, that good should be to you, and that you may be a long time upon the earth of which the LORD your God gives to you!
DEU 5:17 You shall not murder.
DEU 5:18 You shall not commit adultery.
DEU 5:19 You shall not steal.
DEU 5:20 You shall not falsely witness against your neighbor as a lying witness.
DEU 5:21 You shall not desire the wife of your neighbor. You shall not desire the house of your neighbor, nor his field, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his beast of burden, nor any beast of his, nor any thing as much as is of your neighbor.
DEU 5:22 These are the discourses the LORD spoke to all your congregation in the mountain from out of the midst of the fire, darkness, dimness, storm, a great voice - and he added not any more. And he wrote them upon two tablets of stone, and gave them to me.
DEU 5:23 And it came to pass, as you heard the voice from out of the midst of the fire, and the mountain burned fire, and there came forward to me all the leaders of your tribes, and your council of elders,
DEU 5:24 that you said, Behold, the LORD our God showed to us his glory, and his voice we hear from out of the midst of the fire. In this day we beheld that God shall speak to man, and he shall live.
DEU 5:25 And now lest at any time we die, for this great fire shall completely consume us, if we ourselves should have added to hear the voice of the LORD our God any more - then we shall die.
DEU 5:26 For what flesh who heard the voice of the living God speaking from out of the midst of the fire shall live even as we?
DEU 5:27 You approach, and hear all as much as the LORD our God should say to you! And you shall speak to us all whatever as much as the LORD our God should speak to you - and we will hear, and we will do.
DEU 5:28 And the LORD heard the voice of your words speaking to me. And the LORD said to me, I heard the voice of the words of this people, as many as they spoke to you rightly, all as many as they spoke.
DEU 5:29 Who shall give their heart to be thus in them, so as to fear me, and to guard my commandments all the days, that good might be to them, and to their sons through the eon.
DEU 5:30 Proceed! Say to them, You return to your houses!
DEU 5:31 But you here, stand with me, and I shall speak to you all the commandments, and the ordinances, and the judgments, as many as you shall teach them! And let them do thus in the land which I give to them by lot!
DEU 5:32 And you shall guard to do in which manner the LORD your God gave charge to you, to not turn aside right nor left,
DEU 5:33 but according to every way which the LORD your God gave charge to you to go by it, so that he should rest you, and good might be to you, and you should prolong your days upon the land which you shall inherit.
DEU 6:1 And these are the commandments, and the ordinances, and the judgments, as many as the LORD our God gave charge to teach you, to do thus in the land into which you enter there to inherit it.
DEU 6:2 That you should fear the LORD our God, to guard all his ordinances and his commandments, which I give charge to you today - you, and your sons, and the sons of your sons, all the days of your life, that you should prolong your days.
DEU 6:3 And hear, O Israel, and guard to do! so that good might be to you, and that you should multiply exceedingly, just as the LORD God of your fathers spoke to give to you a land flowing milk and honey. And these are the ordinances, and the judgments, as many as the LORD gave charge to the sons of Israel in the wilderness, in their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt.
DEU 6:4 Hear, O Israel! The LORD our God is one Lord.
DEU 6:5 And you shall love the LORD your God with your entire heart, and with your entire soul, and with your entire power.
DEU 6:6 And these discourses as many as I give charge to you today will be in your heart, and in your soul.
DEU 6:7 And you shall assist your sons with them, and you shall speak of them sitting down in your house, and going in the way, and lying in bed, and arising.
DEU 6:8 And you shall affix them for a sign upon your hand, and it shall be unshaken before your eyes.
DEU 6:9 And you shall write them upon the lintels of your houses, and your gates.
DEU 6:10 And it will be whenever the LORD your God shall bring you into the land which he swore by an oath to your fathers, to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to you the great and good cities which you did not build;
DEU 6:11 houses full of all good things which you did not fill up; pits of quarrying which you did not quarry; vineyards and olive groves which you did not plant; and eating and being filled up.
DEU 6:12 Take heed to yourself that you should not forget the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, from out of a house of slavery!
DEU 6:13 You shall fear the LORD your God, and to him only you shall serve, and to him you shall cleave, and by his name you shall swear an oath by.
DEU 6:14 You shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the nations surrounding you;
DEU 6:15 (for the LORD your God is a jealous God among you,) lest being provoked to anger the LORD your God should be enraged against you, and should utterly destroy you from the face of the earth.
DEU 6:16 You shall not put to test the LORD your God, in which manner you put him to test in Test.
DEU 6:17 By guarding, you shall guard the commandments of the LORD your God, and his testimonies, and his ordinances, as many as he gave charge to you.
DEU 6:18 And you shall do the pleasing and the good before the LORD your God; that it should be good to you, and you should enter, and should inherit the good land which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers,
DEU 6:19 to drive out all your enemies before your face, as the LORD spoke.
DEU 6:20 And it will be whenever your son should ask you tomorrow, saying, What are the testimonies, and the ordinances, and the judgments, as many as the LORD our God gave charge to us?
DEU 6:21 And you shall say to your son, We were servants to Pharaoh in the land of Egypt, and the LORD led us from there by a fortified hand and with a high arm.
DEU 6:22 And the LORD executed signs and great and severe miracles in Egypt, to Pharaoh, and to his house in our presence.
DEU 6:23 And the LORD led us from there, that he should bring us, to give to us this land which the LORD our God swore by an oath to our fathers to give to us.
DEU 6:24 And the LORD gave charge to us to do all these ordinances, to fear the LORD our God, that good might be to us all the days, that we should live as even today.
DEU 6:25 And mercy will be to us, if we guard to do all the commandments of this law before the LORD our God, as he gave charge to us.
DEU 7:1 And it will be in the LORD your God bringing you into the land into which you enter there to inherit it, and he shall lift away great and numerous nations from your presence - the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and Canaanite, and Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite - seven great and numerous nations, even stronger than you,
DEU 7:2 and the LORD your God shall deliver them into your hands, that you shall strike them. To extinction you shall remove them. You shall not ordain with them a covenant, nor in any way should you show mercy unto them;
DEU 7:3 nor contract a marriage with them. You shall not give your daughter to his son, and his daughter you shall not take to your son.
DEU 7:4 For your son will leave from me, and shall serve other gods; and the LORD shall be provoked to anger in rage against you, and shall utterly destroy you quickly.
DEU 7:5 But thus you shall do to them - you shall demolish their shrines, and you shall break their monuments, and you shall cut down their sacred groves, and shall incinerate their carvings of the gods by fire.
DEU 7:6 For you are a holy people to the LORD your God. And the LORD your God preferred you to be to him a prized people from all the nations, as many as are upon the face of the earth.
DEU 7:7 Not because you were more numerous than all the nations, did the LORD prefer you, and chose you; (for you are ones very few of all the nations;)
DEU 7:8 but because the LORD loved you; and to observe the oath which he swore to your fathers, the LORD led you by a fortified hand and with a high arm, and ransomed you from out of a house of slavery, from out of the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.
DEU 7:9 And you shall know that the LORD your God - this one is God, the trustworthy God, the one guarding the covenant and mercy to the ones loving him, and to the ones guarding his commandments into a thousand generations;
DEU 7:10 and repaying to the ones detesting his face, to utterly destroy them. And he shall not be slow to the ones detesting; by person he shall render what is due to them.
DEU 7:11 And you shall guard the commandments, and the ordinances, and these judgments, as many as I give charge to you today to do.
DEU 7:12 And it will be when ever you should hear these ordinances, and should have guarded, and should have done them, that the LORD your God will protect the covenant with you, and the mercy which he swore by an oath to your fathers.
DEU 7:13 And he will love you, and shall bless you, and shall multiply you, and shall bless the progeny of your belly, and the fruit of your land; your grain, and your wine, and your olive oil, the herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep, upon the land which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers to give to you.
DEU 7:14 Blessed you will be of all the nations. There will not be among you barren nor sterile, even among your cattle.
DEU 7:15 And the LORD shall remove from you every infirmity. And all the severe diseases of Egypt which you knew, he will not place upon you. And he will place them upon all the ones detesting you.
DEU 7:16 And you shall eat all the spoils of the nations which the LORD your God gives to you. You shall not spare your eye over them, and no way should you serve to their gods; for this shall be an impediment to you.
DEU 7:17 But if you should say in your mind that, This nation is great; or, I, how shall I be able to utterly destroy them?
DEU 7:18 You shall not fear them. By remembering, you shall remember as much as the LORD your God did to Pharaoh, and to all the Egyptians;
DEU 7:19 the great tests which you beheld with your eyes; the signs and those great miracles; the fortified hand and the high arm. As the LORD your God led you, so the LORD your God will do to all the nations which you fear from their face.
DEU 7:20 And the LORD your God will send the swarms of wasps unto them, until whenever the ones being left behind shall be obliterated, and the ones being hidden from you.
DEU 7:21 You shall not be pierced from their face, for the LORD your God among you is a God great and fortified.
DEU 7:22 And the LORD your God shall consume these nations from your face by little and little. You shall not be able to completely consume them quickly, that the land might not become wilderness, and the wild beasts should multiply upon you.
DEU 7:23 And the LORD your God delivered them into your hands, and you shall destroy them in a great destruction, until whenever you should utterly destroy them.
DEU 7:24 And he shall deliver up their kings into your hands. And he shall destroy their name under the heaven. Not shall anyone withstand against your face until whenever you should have utterly destroyed them.
DEU 7:25 The carvings of their gods you shall incinerate in fire. You shall not desire silver nor gold from them, to take to yourself, lest you should be at fault because of it - for it is an abomination to the LORD your God.
DEU 7:26 And you shall not carry an abomination into your house that you shall be anathema as this thing. Loathing, you shall loathe, and as an abomination you shall abhor it, for it is anathema.
DEU 8:1 All the commandments which I give charge to you today you shall guard to do, that you should live and manifoldly multiply, and should enter and should inherit the land which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers.
DEU 8:2 And you shall remember the whole journey which the LORD your God led you this fortieth year in the wilderness, how he should afflict you, and should test you, and should determine the things in your heart, if you shall guard his commandments, or not.
DEU 8:3 And he afflicted you, and caused you to hunger, and fed you the manna which your fathers had not known; that he should announce to you that man shall not live by bread alone; but by every word going forth through the mouth of God shall a man live.
DEU 8:4 Your garments did not grow old from you; your feet were not calloused - behold, for forty years.
DEU 8:5 And you shall know in your heart, that as if any man should correct his son, so the LORD your God corrects you.
DEU 8:6 And you shall guard the commandments of the LORD your God, to go in his ways, and to fear him.
DEU 8:7 For the LORD your God shall bring you into a land good and abundant, of which are rushing streams of waters, and springs of the deeps going forth through the plains, and through the mountains.
DEU 8:8 A land of wheat, and barley, grapevines, fig-trees, pomegranates - a land of olive oil, and honey.
DEU 8:9 A land upon which you shall eat your bread not with poorness, and you shall not be in want upon it. A land of which its stones are iron, and from out of its mountains you shall mine brass.
DEU 8:10 And you shall eat and shall be filled up, and shall bless the LORD your God upon the good land of which he has given to you.
DEU 8:11 Take heed to yourself! You should not forget the LORD your God, so as to not guard his commandments, and his judgments, and his ordinances, as many as I give charge to you today.
DEU 8:12 Lest having eaten, and being filled up, and having built good houses, and dwelling in them,
DEU 8:13 and your oxen and your sheep having been multiplied to you, and silver and gold having been multiplied to you, and all as much as to you shall be multiplying,
DEU 8:14 you should be raised up high in your heart, and should forget the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery;
DEU 8:15 the one leading you through the great and dreadful wilderness, that one of which has the biting serpent, and scorpion, and thirst, of which there was not water; the one leading to you a spring of water from out of chiseled rock;
DEU 8:16 the one feeding you the manna in the wilderness, which you had not known, and your fathers did not know; that he should afflict you, and that he should put you to the test, and do good unto you upon the last of your days;
DEU 8:17 and lest you should say in your heart, My strength and the might of my hand produced to me this great ability.
DEU 8:18 And you shall remember the LORD your God; for he gives to you strength to produce the ability, that he should establish his covenant which he swore by an oath to your fathers as today.
DEU 8:19 And it will be, if in forgetfulness you should forget the LORD your God, and should go after other gods, and should serve to them, and should do obeisance to them, I testify to you today on both heaven and the earth, that by destruction you shall be destroyed.
DEU 8:20 As also the remaining nations, as many as the LORD destroys before your face, so shall you be destroyed; because you hearkened not to the voice of the LORD your God.
DEU 9:1 Hear, O Israel! You pass over today the Jordan, to enter to inherit great and stronger nations than you; great and walled cities unto the heaven;
DEU 9:2 a people great and populous and tall - sons of Anak, whom you know, and you have heard said, Who can withstand against the face of the sons of Anak?
DEU 9:3 And you shall know today that the LORD your God, this one shall go forth before your face - he is a consuming fire. This one shall utterly destroy them, and this one shall turn them away before your presence. And he shall utterly destroy them, and will destroy them quickly - just as the LORD said to you.
DEU 9:4 You should not say in your heart by the complete consuming by the LORD your God of these nations before your face, saying, Because of my righteousness the LORD brought me to inherit this good land. But on account of the impiety of these nations the LORD will utterly destroy them before your face.
DEU 9:5 Not because of your righteousness, nor because of the sacredness of your heart, do you enter to inherit their land; but because of the impiety of these nations the LORD shall utterly destroy them from your presence, and that he should establish the covenant which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers - to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob.
DEU 9:6 And you shall know today that not through your works of righteousness the LORD your God gives to you this good land to inherit - for you are a hard-necked people.
DEU 9:7 Remember! you should not forget as much as you provoked the LORD your God in the wilderness; from which day you came forth from out of the land of Egypt, until you came into this place - by resisting persuasion you completed the things against the LORD.
DEU 9:8 And in Horeb you provoked the LORD, and the LORD was enraged with you to utterly destroy you.
DEU 9:9 Of my ascending into the mountain to take the tablets of stone, tablets of covenant of which the LORD ordained for you; and I was occupied in the mountain forty days and forty nights - I did not eat bread, and I did not drink water.
DEU 9:10 And the LORD gave to me the two tablets of stone being written by the finger of God. And upon them he had written all the words of which the LORD spoke to you in the mountain, from out of the midst of the fire, in the day of assembly.
DEU 9:11 And it came to pass through forty days, and through forty nights, that the LORD gave to me the two tablets of stone - tablets of covenant.
DEU 9:12 And the LORD said to me, Arise, go down quickly from here! for your people acted lawlessly, of whom you led out from out of the land of Egypt. They violated quickly from out of the way of which you gave charge to them - they made to themselves a molten casting.
DEU 9:13 And the LORD said to me, saying, I have spoken to you once and twice, saying, I have seen this people; and behold, it is a hard-necked people.
DEU 9:14 Allow me to utterly destroy them! and I will wipe away their name from beneath the heaven. And I will make you into a great and strong nation, and more numerous rather than this one.
DEU 9:15 And turning, I went down from out of the mountain, and the mountain burned fire; and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands.
DEU 9:16 And seeing that you sinned before the LORD your God, and made to yourselves a calf molten image, and transgressed quickly from out of the way which the LORD gave charge to you;
DEU 9:17 that taking hold of the two tablets, I tossed them from my two hands, and I broke them before you.
DEU 9:18 And I beseeched before the LORD a second time, as also even formerly, forty days and forty nights. Bread I did not eat, and water I did not drink, on account of all your sins which you sinned, to do the wicked thing before the LORD God, to provoke him.
DEU 9:19 And I am frightened on account of the rage and the anger that the LORD was provoked by you to utterly destroy you. And the LORD hearkened to me, even at that time.
DEU 9:20 And the LORD was enraged exceedingly against Aaron to utterly destroy him. And I made a vow also for Aaron in that time.
DEU 9:21 And your sin, in which you made the calf, I took and incinerated it in fire, and cut it down, and ground it down exceeding, until of which it became fine, and became as a cloud of dust. And I tossed the dust into the rushing stream coming down from out of the mountain.
DEU 9:22 And in Combustion, and in Test, and in Tombs of Desire, you were provoking the LORD your God.
DEU 9:23 And when the LORD sent you from out of Kadesh Barnea, saying, Ascend and inherit the land which I give to you! That you resisted persuasion in the word of the LORD your God, and you trusted not in him, and listened not to his voice.
DEU 9:24 You were resisting the things towards the LORD from which day he was made known to you.
DEU 9:25 And I beseeched before the LORD forty days and forty nights. Many things I beseeched - for the LORD said he would utterly destroy you.
DEU 9:26 And I made a vow to God, and said, O Lord, LORD, you should not utterly destroy your people and your inheritance, whom you ransomed in your great strength, of whom you led out of the land of Egypt by your fortified hand, and by your high arm.
DEU 9:27 Remember Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, your attendants, to whom you swore by an oath according to yourself! You should not look upon the hardness of this people, and upon their acts of impiety, and their sins;
DEU 9:28 lest the ones dwelling the land from where you led us from there should say, saying, Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land which he said to them, and because of the LORD detesting them, he led them in the wilderness to kill them.
DEU 9:29 And these are your people and your inheritance, of whom you led out of the land of Egypt by your great strength and by your high arm.
DEU 10:1 In that time the LORD said to me, You dress stone for yourself - two tablets of stone as the first! And ascend to me into the mountain, and make for yourself a wooden ark!
DEU 10:2 And I will write upon the tablets the words which were on the first tablets which you broke, and you shall put them into the ark.
DEU 10:3 And I made the ark from out of incorruptible wood. And I dressed the two stone tablets as the first. And I ascended into the mountain, and the two tablets were upon my two hands.
DEU 10:4 And he wrote upon the tablets according to the first writing - the ten words which the LORD spoke to you in the mountain from out of the midst of the fire in the day of the gathering. And the LORD gave them to me.
DEU 10:5 And turning, I went down from out of the mountain, and I put the tablets into the ark which I made; and they were there as the LORD gave charge to me.
DEU 10:6 And the sons of Israel departed from out of Beeroth of the sons of Jaakan to Mosera. There Aaron died, and he was entombed there. And Eleazar his son officiated as priest instead of him.
DEU 10:7 From there they departed into Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbath, a land of rushing streams of waters.
DEU 10:8 In that time the LORD separated the tribe of Levi to lift the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand before the LORD to officiate, and to invoke upon his name until this day.
DEU 10:9 On account of this there is not to the Levites a portion or lot among their brothers - the LORD himself is his lot, as the LORD your God told them.
DEU 10:10 And I stayed in the mountain forty days and forty nights - and the LORD listened to me. And in that time the LORD did not want to utterly destroy you.
DEU 10:11 And the LORD said to me, Proceed, depart before this people, and let them enter and inherit the land which I swore by an oath to their fathers to give to them!
DEU 10:12 And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God ask from you, but only to fear the LORD your God, and to go in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the LORD your God from out of your entire heart, and from out of your entire soul,
DEU 10:13 to guard the commandments of the LORD your God, and his ordinances, as many as I give charge to you today, that it might be good to you.
DEU 10:14 Behold, the heaven is of the LORD your God, and the heaven of the heaven, the earth and all as much as is in it.
DEU 10:15 Except concerning your fathers, the LORD preferred to love them, and he chose their seed after them - you, from all the nations according to this day.
DEU 10:16 And you shall circumcise the hardness of your heart, and you shall not harden your neck any longer.
DEU 10:17 For the LORD your God, he is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great and strong and fearful God, who does not marvel over a person, nor should take a bribe;
DEU 10:18 the one executing judgment for a foreigner, and orphan, and widow; and he loves the foreigner so as to give to him bread and a garment.
DEU 10:19 And you shall love the foreigner - for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt.
DEU 10:20 The LORD your God you shall fear, and to him you shall serve, and to him you shall cleave, and upon his name you shall swear by an oath.
DEU 10:21 He is your boasting, and he is your God, who did among you the great and the honorable things - these things which your eyes beheld.
DEU 10:22 With seventy souls your fathers went down into Egypt. But now the LORD your God made you as the stars of the heaven in multitude.
DEU 11:1 And you shall love the LORD your God, and you shall guard his injunctions, and his ordinances, and his commandments, and his judgments all the days.
DEU 11:2 And you shall know today that I do not speak to your children, as many as are not knowing, nor knew the instruction of the LORD your God, and the magnificent works of his, and the fortified hand, and the high arm,
DEU 11:3 and his signs, and his miracles, as many as he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and all his land;
DEU 11:4 and as much as he did to the force of the Egyptians, their chariots, and their cavalry, as he inundated them in the water of the red sea upon their face, pursuing them from the coming after you, and the LORD destroyed them until today's day;
DEU 11:5 and as many things as he did to you in the wilderness, until you came into this place;
DEU 11:6 and as much as he did to Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab, son of Reuben, of which the earth opening her mouth swallowed them, and their houses, and their tents, and all their means of support with them, in the midst of all Israel -
DEU 11:7 for your eyes saw all the works of the LORD, the great ones, as many as he did among you today.
DEU 11:8 And you shall guard all of his commandments, as many as I give charge to you today, that you should live, and should manifoldly multiply, and should enter, and should inherit the land into which you pass over the Jordan there to inherit it;
DEU 11:9 that you should prolong your days upon the land of which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers to give to them, and to their seed after them - a land flowing milk and honey.
DEU 11:10 For it is the land into which you enter there to inherit it. It is not as the land of Egypt, from where you went forth from there; whenever they sow the seed, and water with the feet, as a garden of vegetables -
DEU 11:11 but the land into which you enter there to inherit it is a mountainous land and plain; from out of the rain of the heaven it shall drink water;
DEU 11:12 a land which the LORD your God oversees it always, as the eyes of the LORD your God are upon it from the beginning of the year and until the completion of the year.
DEU 11:13 But if in hearing, you should hear all his commandments, as many as I give charge to you today, to love the LORD your God, and to serve to him from out of your entire heart, and from out of your entire soul,
DEU 11:14 then he will give the rain to your land according to season - early and late; and you shall carry in your grain, and your wine, and your olive oil.
DEU 11:15 And he shall give fodder in your fields to your cattle. And having eaten and having been filled up,
DEU 11:16 take heed to yourselves not widening your heart, that you should transgress, and should serve other gods, and should do obeisance to them;
DEU 11:17 and the LORD being enraged should be angry with you, that he should hold together the heaven, and there will not be rain, and the earth shall not give of its fruit, and you shall be destroyed quickly from the good land which the LORD gave to you!
DEU 11:18 And you shall put these words into your heart, and into your soul, and shall affix them for a sign upon your hand, and it shall be unshaken before your eyes.
DEU 11:19 And you shall teach your children them, to speak them sitting down in the house, and going in the way, and laying in bed, and arising.
DEU 11:20 And you shall write them upon the lintels of your houses, and of your gates;
DEU 11:21 that you should multiply your days, and the days of your sons, upon the land which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers to give to them, as the days of heaven upon the earth.
DEU 11:22 And it will be if hearing you should hear all these commandments which I give charge to you today, to do them, to love the LORD your God, and to go in all his ways, and to cleave to him;
DEU 11:23 then the LORD will cast out all these nations from your face, and you shall inherit great nations, and stronger ones than you.
DEU 11:24 Every place which ever the track of your foot may tread will be yours - from the wilderness and Antilebanon, and from the river of the great river Euphrates, and unto the sea at the descent of the sun - it will be your boundaries.
DEU 11:25 Not shall any one withstand against your face. The fear of you and the trembling because of you the LORD your God shall place upon the face of all the earth, upon which ever you should mount upon it, in which manner he spoke to you.
DEU 11:26 Behold, I give before you today a blessing and curse.
DEU 11:27 The blessing, if you should hear the commandments of the LORD your God, as many as I give charge to you today.
DEU 11:28 And the curse, if you do not hearken to the commandments of the LORD your God, as many as I give charge to you today, and you should wander from the way which I gave charge to you - having gone to serve other gods, ones who perceive not.
DEU 11:29 Then it will be whenever the LORD your God should bring you into the land, into which you pass over there to inherit it; then you shall give the blessing upon mount Gerizim, and the curse upon mount Ebal.
DEU 11:30 Behold are these not on the other side of the Jordan, behind the way of the descent of the sun in the land of Canaan, the people dwelling upon the descent, being next to Gilgal, neighboring the high oak?
DEU 11:31 For you are passing over the Jordan, entering to inherit the land which the LORD our God gives to us by lot all the days. And you shall inherit and dwell in it.
DEU 11:32 And you shall guard to do all his orders, and these judgments which I give in your presence today.
DEU 12:1 And these are the orders and the judgments which you shall guard to do in the land of which the LORD the God of your fathers gives to you by lot, all the days of which you live upon the land.
DEU 12:2 By destruction you shall destroy all the places in which the nations serve there their gods, (of whom you shall inherit them,) upon the high mountains, and upon the hills, and underneath every bushy tree.
DEU 12:3 And you shall raze their shrines, and break their monuments, and cut down their sacred groves, and incinerate the carvings of their gods by fire, and destroy their names from out of that place.
DEU 12:4 You shall not do so with the LORD your God.
DEU 12:5 But in the place which ever the LORD your God should choose from out of all of your tribes to name his name there, and to be called upon - even you shall seek after and enter there.
DEU 12:6 And you shall bring there your whole burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tenths, and your vow offerings, and your voluntary offerings, and your acknowledgment offerings, the first-born of your oxen, and of your sheep.
DEU 12:7 And you shall eat there before the LORD your God. And you shall be glad over all of what ever you should put your hands, you and your houses, in so far as the LORD your God blessed you.
DEU 12:8 You shall not do according to all as much as we do here today - each doing the pleasing thing before him.
DEU 12:9 For you have not come unto the present time for the rest and for the inheritance which the LORD our God gives you.
DEU 12:10 But you shall pass over the Jordan, and you shall dwell upon the land of which the LORD our God shall inherit to you. And he shall rest you from all your enemies round about. And you shall dwell with safety.
DEU 12:11 And there will be the place which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there, that there you shall bring all as many things as I give charge to you today - your whole burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the first-fruits of your hands, and every choice thing of your gifts, as many as you should vow to the LORD.
DEU 12:12 And you shall be glad before the LORD your God; you, and your sons, and your daughters, and your menservants, and your maidservants, and the Levite at your gates - for there is not to him a portion nor lot with you.
DEU 12:13 Take heed to yourself! You should not offer the things of your whole burnt offerings in any place of which ever you should behold;
DEU 12:14 but only in the place which the LORD your God should choose it, in one of your cities - there you shall offer your whole burnt offerings, and there you shall do all as many things as I give charge to you today.
DEU 12:15 But in all your desire you shall sacrifice and shall eat meats according to the blessing of the LORD your God which he gave to you in every city - the unclean among you, and the clean shall eat it the same, as a doe or stag.
DEU 12:16 Except the blood you shall not eat upon the land - you shall pour it out as water.
DEU 12:17 You shall not be able to eat in your cities the tithe of your grain, and of your wine, and of your olive oil, the first-born of your oxen, and of your sheep, and all the vows, as many as you should have vowed, and your acknowledgment offerings, and the first-fruits of your hands;
DEU 12:18 but only before the LORD your God shall you eat them in the place in which ever the LORD your God himself should choose for you and your son and your daughter, your manservant and your maidservant, and the Levite, and the foreigner in your cities. And you shall be glad before the LORD your God over all of whatsoever you should put your hand upon.
DEU 12:19 Take heed to yourself - you should not abandon the Levite all the time as long as you should live upon the land!
DEU 12:20 And if the LORD your God should widen your borders, just as he spoke to you, and you shall say, I will eat meats; if your soul should desire so as to eat meats - in every desire of your soul you shall eat meats.
DEU 12:21 And if at a farther distance from you be the place which ever the LORD your God should choose to call upon his name there, then you shall sacrifice from your oxen, and from your sheep what ever the LORD your God should give to you, in which manner I gave charge to you - then you shall eat in your cities according to the desire of your soul.
DEU 12:22 As the doe and the stag are eaten, so shall you eat it - the unclean among you, and the clean shall eat it likewise.
DEU 12:23 Take heed strongly to not eat blood! For its blood is life. You shall not eat life with the meats.
DEU 12:24 You shall not eat blood - upon the earth you shall pour it out as water.
DEU 12:25 You shall not eat it so that good should happen to you, and to your sons after you, if you should do the good and the pleasing thing before the LORD your God.
DEU 12:26 Except your holy things, which ever should come to you - that taking your vow offerings, you shall come into the place which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there.
DEU 12:27 And you shall offer your whole burnt offerings - the meats you shall offer upon the altar of the LORD your God, but the blood of your sacrifices you shall pour towards the base of the altar of the LORD your God; but the meats you may eat.
DEU 12:28 Guard and hearken! And you shall do all the words which I give charge to you, that good should happen to you, and to your sons through the eon, if you should do the pleasing and the good thing before the LORD your God.
DEU 12:29 But if the LORD your God should utterly destroy the nations into which you enter there to inherit their land from your presence, and you should inherit them, and dwell in their land;
DEU 12:30 take heed to yourself! You should not seek to follow after them, after their being utterly destroyed from your face. Not in no way should you seek after their gods, saying, How these nations act with their gods, I also shall act.
DEU 12:31 You shall not do so to the LORD your God. For the abominations which the LORD detested, they did with their gods. For also their sons and their daughters they incinerated in fire to their gods.
DEU 12:32 Every word which I give charge to you today, this you shall guard to do. You shall not add unto it, nor remove from it.
DEU 13:1 And if there should rise up among you a prophet, or one dreaming dreams, and he should give to you a sign or miracle,
DEU 13:2 and it should come to pass - the sign or the miracle which he spoke to you, saying, We should go and serve other gods who we know not.
DEU 13:3 You shall not hearken to the words of that prophet, or the one dreaming that dream. For the LORD your God tests you, to know if you love the LORD your God from out of your entire heart, and from out of your entire soul.
DEU 13:4 You shall go after the LORD your God, and him you shall fear, and his commandments you shall keep, and his voice you shall hearken to, and to him you shall serve, and to him you shall be added to.
DEU 13:5 And that prophet, or that one dreaming the dream shall die; for he spoke to cause you to wander from the LORD your God (the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, ransoming you from out of slavery) to push you from out of the way of which the LORD your God gave charge to you to go by it. And you shall remove their wicked thing from you.
DEU 13:6 But if your brother from out of your father should enjoin you, or from out of your mother, or of your son, or of your daughter, or of your wife, or one in your bosom, or your equal friend to your soul, in private, saying, We should go and should serve other gods, which you nor your fathers knew not;
DEU 13:7 of the gods of the nations surrounding you, of the ones near to you, or of the ones far from you, from the uttermost part of the earth, unto the uttermost part of the earth;
DEU 13:8 you shall not acquiesce to him, and you shall not hearken to him, and you shall not spare your eye upon him, and you shall not show mercy upon him, nor shall you shelter him.
DEU 13:9 By announcing, you shall announce concerning him, and your hand shall be upon him as first to kill him, and the hand of all the people upon him last.
DEU 13:10 And they shall throw stones at him with stones, and he shall die; for he sought to abstain you from the LORD your God, the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery.
DEU 13:11 And all Israel hearing, shall fear, and shall not add to do again according to this wicked matter among you.
DEU 13:12 And if it should be heard in one of your cities, which the LORD your God gives to you for you to dwell there, saying,
DEU 13:13 Men lawbreakers came forth from out of you, and left all the ones dwelling in their city, saying, We should go and serve other gods, which knew not;
DEU 13:14 then you shall examine, and shall ask, and shall search exceedingly; and behold, if the word be clearly true that this abomination has taken place among you;
DEU 13:15 then by doing away with, you shall do away with all the ones dwelling in that city by carnage of the sword - under anathema you shall devote it to consumption, and all the things in it, and all its cattle by the mouth of the sword.
DEU 13:16 And all its spoils you shall bring together into its corridors, and shall burn the city by fire, and all its spoils in full assembly before the LORD your God. And it shall be uninhabited into the eon - it shall not be rebuilt again.
DEU 13:17 And you shall not cleave to anything of that being offered up for consumption in your hand; so that the LORD should be turned away from the rage of his anger, and should grant to you mercy, and should show mercy on you, and should multiply you in which manner the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers;
DEU 13:18 if you should hearken to the voice of the LORD your God, to guard all his commandments which I give charge to you today, to do the good and the pleasing thing before the LORD your God.
DEU 14:1 You are sons of the LORD your God. You shall not make baldness between your eyes for the dead.
DEU 14:2 For you are a holy people to the LORD your God, and the LORD your God chose you to become his prized people, of all the nations upon the face of the earth.
DEU 14:3 You shall not eat any abomination.
DEU 14:4 These are the cattle which you shall eat - the calf of the oxen, and a lamb of the sheep, and a young he-goat of the goats,
DEU 14:5 the stag, and doe, and roebuck, and antelope, and white-tailed hart, and gazelle, and cameleopard.
DEU 14:6 Every beast cloven hoof, and clovenfooted to claw with two claws, and embarks chewing the cud among the cattle - these you shall eat.
DEU 14:7 And these you shall not eat - from of the ones embarking chewing the cud, and of the ones being cloven of the hoofs, and clawing clovenfooted - the camel, and hare, and hyrax. For they embark chewing the cud, but the hoof is not cloven - these are unclean to you.
DEU 14:8 And the pig, for this one is cloven of hoof, and claws clovenfooted of hoof, but this one as far as chewing the cud does not chew the cud - this one is unclean to you. From their meats you shall not eat, and of their decaying flesh you shall not touch.
DEU 14:9 And these you shall eat from all of the ones in the waters - all as much as there are fins and scales on them you shall eat.
DEU 14:10 And all as much as there is not fins and scales to them you shall not eat - these shall be unclean to you.
DEU 14:11 You shall eat every clean fowl.
DEU 14:12 And these you shall not eat of them - the eagle, and the griffin, and the osprey,
DEU 14:13 and the vulture, and the kite, and the ones likened to it,
DEU 14:14 and every crow and the ones likened to it,
DEU 14:15 and the ostrich, and owl, and gull,
DEU 14:16 and heron, and swan, and ibis,
DEU 14:17 and cormorant, and hawk, and the ones likened to it, and hoopoe, and long-eared owl,
DEU 14:18 and pelican, and curlew, and the ones likened to it, and the purple-legged stork, and bat.
DEU 14:19 All the crawling things of the winged creatures - these are unclean to you, you shall not eat from them.
DEU 14:20 Every winged creature being clean you shall eat.
DEU 14:21 Any decaying flesh you shall not eat - to the foreigner in your cities it shall be given, and he shall eat it; or you shall render it to the alien. For you are a holy people to the LORD your God. You shall not boil a lamb in the milk of its mother.
DEU 14:22 A tenth you shall tithe of all your produce of seed - the produce of your field year by year.
DEU 14:23 And you shall eat it before the LORD your God in the place in which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there. You shall bring the tithes of your grain, and of your wine, and of your olive oil, and the first-born of your oxen, and of your sheep, that you should learn to fear the LORD your God all the days.
DEU 14:24 And if the journey should be far from you, and you should not be able to offer them because the place is far from you, which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there, that the LORD your God shall bless you.
DEU 14:25 Then you shall render for them of silver. And you shall take the silver in your hands, and you shall go to the place which ever the LORD your God should choose it.
DEU 14:26 And you shall give the silver for all, of what ever your soul should desire, for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or for liquor, or for any thing of which ever your soul should desire. And you shall eat there before the LORD your God. And you shall be glad - you and your house.
DEU 14:27 And the Levite in your cities - you shall not abandon him, for there is not to him a portion nor a lot with you.
DEU 14:28 After three years you shall bring forth every tenth of your produce, and in that year you shall place it in your cities.
DEU 14:29 And the Levite shall come, (for there is not a portion to him nor a lot with you,) and the foreigner, and the orphan, and the widow in your cities; and they shall eat, and shall be filled, that the LORD your God should bless you in all the works of your hands, in whichever ones you should do.
DEU 15:1 For seven years you shall make a release.
DEU 15:2 And thus is the order of the release. You shall cancel every private loan which your neighbor owes to you. And you shall not exact payment of your brother; for it has been called a release to the LORD your God.
DEU 15:3 The alien - you shall exact as much as might be due to you from him; but to your brother you shall make a release of your loan.
DEU 15:4 For there shall not be among you one lacking; for by a blessing the LORD your God shall bless you in the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot to inherit it.
DEU 15:5 But if in hearing you should hearken to the voice of the LORD your God, to guard and to do all these commandments which I give charge to you today,
DEU 15:6 (for the LORD your God blessed you in which manner he spoke to you,) then you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow; and you shall control many nations, but of you they shall not control.
DEU 15:7 And if there should be among you one lacking from out of your brothers in one of your cities in the land which the LORD your God gives to you, you shall not disregard your heart, nor not in any way close your hand from your brother - the one wanting.
DEU 15:8 In opening, you shall open your hands to him, and you shall lend a loan to him as much as he wants, and according to as much as he lacks.
DEU 15:9 Take heed to yourself that there might be not a hidden thing in your heart, a violation of the law, saying, The seventh year approaches, the year of the release; and your eye should be wicked towards your brother, to the one wanting, that you should not give to him; and he shall call to aid against you to the LORD, and there shall be in you a great sin!
DEU 15:10 Giving, you shall give to him; and a loan, you shall lend to him - as much as he wants of you. And you shall not fret in your heart of your giving to him, for on account of this matter the LORD your God will bless you in all your works, and in all things of which ever you should put your hand.
DEU 15:11 For not in any way should the one lacking fail from your land. Because of this I give charge to you to do this thing, saying, In opening, you shall open your hands to your needy brother, and to the one wanting upon your land.
DEU 15:12 And if your brother a Hebrew man should be sold to you, or the Hebrew woman, he shall serve to you six years, and the seventh you shall send him free from you.
DEU 15:13 And whenever you should send him forth free from you, you shall not send him empty.
DEU 15:14 With supplies you shall provide him from your sheep, and from your grain, and from your wine vat. As the LORD your God blessed you you shall give to him.
DEU 15:15 And you shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God ransomed you from there. On account of this I give charge to you to do this thing.
DEU 15:16 But if he should say to you, I shall not go forth from you; for he loves you, and your house, for it is good to him to be by you;
DEU 15:17 then you shall take the shoemaker's awl, and make a hole in his ear against the door, and he will be to you a servant into the eon. And of your maidservant you shall do likewise.
DEU 15:18 It shall not be hard before you sending them free from you; for he served to you the yearly wage of the hireling - six years. And the LORD your God shall bless you in all what ever you should do.
DEU 15:19 Every first-born which ever should give birth among your oxen, and among your sheep, you shall sanctify the males to the LORD your God. You shall not work with your first-born calf, and in no way should you shear the first-born of your sheep.
DEU 15:20 Before the LORD your God you shall eat it year by year, in the place in which ever the LORD your God should choose - you and your house.
DEU 15:21 And if there might be in it a blemish - lame or blind, or even any severe blemish, you shall not sacrifice it to the LORD your God.
DEU 15:22 In your cities you shall eat it. The unclean in you and the clean likewise shall eat as the doe or stag.
DEU 15:23 Except its blood you shall not eat - you shall pour it upon the ground as water.
DEU 16:1 Guard the month of the new grain! And you shall observe the passover to the LORD your God; for in the month of the new grain the LORD your God led you out of Egypt by night.
DEU 16:2 And you shall sacrifice the passover to the LORD your God - sheep and oxen in the place in which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there.
DEU 16:3 You shall not eat it with yeast; seven days you shall eat it with unleavened breads, bread of affliction; for in haste you came forth from out of Egypt at night - that you should remember the day of your departure from out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life.
DEU 16:4 There shall not be seen by you any yeast in all your boundaries for seven days; and you shall not go to bed with any of the meats, which ever you should have sacrificed in the evening, left over the first day in the morning.
DEU 16:5 You shall not be able to sacrifice the passover in any one of your cities which the LORD your God gives to you;
DEU 16:6 but only in the place which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there. You shall sacrifice the passover at evening towards the descent of the sun, in the time which you came forth from out of the land of Egypt.
DEU 16:7 And you shall boil, and bake, and eat in the place in which ever the LORD your God should choose it. And you shall return in the morning, and you shall go to your houses.
DEU 16:8 Six days you shall eat unleavened breads, and the seventh day is a recess holiday to the LORD your God; you shall not do on it any work except as much as shall be done for your life.
DEU 16:9 Seven entire periods of seven you shall count out to yourself - with the beginning of your sickle upon the harvest you shall begin to count out seven periods of seven.
DEU 16:10 And you shall observe the holiday of the period of sevens to the LORD your God, as your hand is strong, in as much as the LORD your God should give to you in so far as he blessed you.
DEU 16:11 And you shall be glad before the LORD your God, you, and your son, and your daughter, your manservant, and your maidservant, and the Levite in your cities, and the foreigner, and the orphan, and the widow among you, in the place in which ever the LORD your God should choose his name to be called upon there.
DEU 16:12 And you shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt. And you shall guard and observe these commandments.
DEU 16:13 The holiday of tents you shall observe to yourself seven days in your bringing from out of your threshing-floor, and from your wine vat.
DEU 16:14 And you shall be glad in your holiday, you, and your son, and your daughter, your manservant, and your maidservant, and the Levite, and the foreigner, and the orphan, and the widow being in your cities.
DEU 16:15 Seven days you shall solemnize a holiday to the LORD your God in the place in which ever the LORD your God should choose it. But if the LORD your God should bless you in all your offspring, and in every work of your hands, then you shall be glad.
DEU 16:16 Three times of the year every male of yours shall appear before the LORD your God in the place in which ever the LORD should have chosen in the holiday of the unleavened breads, and in the holiday of the period of sevens, and in the holiday of the pitching of tents. You shall not appear in the presence of the LORD your God empty.
DEU 16:17 Each shall give according to the power of your hands; according to the blessing of the LORD your God which he gave to you.
DEU 16:18 Judges and judicial recorders you shall ordain to yourself in all your cities, which the LORD your God gives to you, according to tribes. And they shall judge the people a just judgment.
DEU 16:19 They shall not turn aside a judgment; they shall not discriminate a person, nor shall they take bribes - for the bribes make blind the eyes of wise ones, and lift away the words of just ones.
DEU 16:20 Justly you shall pursue the just thing, that you should live, and entering you should inherit the land which the LORD your God gives to you.
DEU 16:21 You shall not plant to yourself a sacred grove. Any tree by the altar of the LORD your God you shall not produce to yourself.
DEU 16:22 You shall not set up to yourself a monument which the LORD your God detests.
DEU 17:1 You shall not sacrifice to the LORD your God a calf or sheep in which there is in it a blemish - any thing in a sorry state. For it is an abomination to the LORD your God.
DEU 17:2 But if there should be among you, in one of your cities which the LORD your God gives to you, a man or woman who shall do the wicked thing before the LORD your God, to pass by his covenant,
DEU 17:3 and going forth should serve other gods, and should do obeisance to them - to the sun, or the moon, or to any of the ones of the cosmos of the heaven, which I assigned not;
DEU 17:4 and it should be announced to you, and you heard, and you sought exceedingly, and behold, if truly the thing has happened that this abomination came to pass in Israel -
DEU 17:5 then you shall lead out that man or that woman, (the ones who made this wicked order,) unto the gate, and shall stone them with stones, and they shall come to an end.
DEU 17:6 By two witnesses or three witnesses one shall die. The one dying shall not die by one witness.
DEU 17:7 And the hand of the witnesses shall be upon him among the first to put him to death, and the hand of all of the people upon him last. And you shall lift away the wicked thing of them from you.
DEU 17:8 But if a matter in a judgment should be powerless for you to decide, between blood and blood, and between judgment and judgment, and between blow and blow, and between dispute and dispute, for matters of judgment in your cities; then rising up you shall ascend unto the place which ever the LORD your God should choose for his name to be called upon there;
DEU 17:9 and you shall come to the priests of the Levites, and to the judge, who ever happens to be in those days - and seeking after the matter, they shall announce to you the judgment.
DEU 17:10 And you shall do according to the thing, which ever they should announce to you from out of the place of which ever the LORD your God should choose. And you shall guard exceedingly to do according to all as much as the law should be established to you.
DEU 17:11 According to the law, and according to the judgment, which ever they should tell to you, thus you shall do it. You shall not turn aside from the matter of which ever they should announce to you, right nor left.
DEU 17:12 And the man who ever should do in pride to not obey the priest standing beside to officiate in the name of the LORD your God, or the judge who ever should be in those days, then that man shall die - and you shall lift away the wicked one from out of Israel.
DEU 17:13 And all the people hearing shall fear, and shall not be impious any more.
DEU 17:14 And whenever you should enter into the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot, and you should inherit it, and should dwell upon it, and you should say, I shall place over myself a ruler, as also the rest of the nations round about me;
DEU 17:15 then in placing, you shall place over yourself a ruler, which ever the LORD your God should choose - him from out of your brothers you shall place over yourself as ruler. You shall not be able to place over yourself an alien man, for he is not your brother.
DEU 17:16 Furthermore he shall not multiply to himself a cavalry, nor shall he return the people to Egypt - so that he should not multiply to himself a cavalry. For the LORD said to you, You shall not add to return this way any more.
DEU 17:17 And he shall not multiply to himself wives, that he shall not change over his heart. And silver and gold he shall not multiply to himself exceedingly.
DEU 17:18 And it will be whenever he shall be settled in the chair of his office, then he shall write to himself this second book of the law into a scroll by the hands of the priests of the Levites.
DEU 17:19 And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life - that he should learn to fear the LORD his God, to guard all these commandments, and to do these ordinances;
DEU 17:20 that his heart should not be raised up high above his brothers; that he should not transgress from the commandments, right or left; so that he should be a long time in his office - he and his sons, among the sons of Israel.
DEU 18:1 There will not be to the priests, to the Levites, the entire tribe of Levi, a portion nor a lot with Israel. The yield offerings of the LORD are their lot - they shall eat them.
DEU 18:2 And there will not be a lot to him among his brothers - the LORD himself is his lot, in so far as he said to him.
DEU 18:3 And this is the distinguishing thing of the priests. The things from the people, from the ones sacrificing the sacrifices, if both a calf, or if also a sheep - that you shall give the shoulder to the priest, and the jawbones, and the large intestine,
DEU 18:4 and the first-fruits of your grain, and of your wine, and of your olive oil, and the first-fruit of the shearing of your sheep you shall give to him.
DEU 18:5 For the LORD your God chose him from out of all your tribes, to stand before the LORD God, to officiate in the name of the LORD, he and his sons, all the days.
DEU 18:6 And if the Levite should come from out of one of your cities of all the sons of Israel, of which he himself sojourns, that his soul desires, into the place which ever the LORD should choose;
DEU 18:7 then he shall officiate in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brothers the Levites standing there before the LORD.
DEU 18:8 He shall eat a portion having been portioned, besides the sale of the things of his family.
DEU 18:9 And whenever you should enter into the land which the LORD your God gives to you, you shall not learn to do according to the abominations of those nations.
DEU 18:10 There shall not be found in you one purging his son or his daughter in fire, or one using oracles for divination, or one prognosticating, and foretelling,
DEU 18:11 an administer of potions, one charming an enchantment, one who delivers oracles, and an observer of signs asking of the dead.
DEU 18:12 For every one doing these things is an abomination to the LORD your God. For because of these abominations the LORD your God shall utterly destroy them from your face.
DEU 18:13 You shall be perfect before the LORD your God.
DEU 18:14 For these nations which you inherit them, these shall hear prognostications and divinations - but to you the LORD your God did not so give.
DEU 18:15 A prophet from out of your brothers, as me, the LORD your God shall raise up to you - him you shall hear.
DEU 18:16 According to all as much as you asked of the LORD your God in Horeb, in the day of the assembly, saying, We shall not add to hear the voice of the LORD your God, and this great fire we shall not see any longer, that not in any way we shall die.
DEU 18:17 And the LORD said to me, Rightly is all as much as they spoke.
DEU 18:18 I shall raise up a prophet to them from out of the midst their brothers, as you, and I shall put my word in his mouth; and he shall speak to them in so far as I give charge to him.
DEU 18:19 And the man who ever should not hearken to his words, as many as the prophet should speak in my name, I shall exact punishment from out of him.
DEU 18:20 Except the prophet, who ever should be impious to speak a word in my name, which I assigned not to him to speak, and who ever should speak in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die.
DEU 18:21 But if you should say in your heart, How shall we know the word which the LORD spoke not?
DEU 18:22 As many things as the prophet should speak in the name of the LORD, and the thing should not take place, and this thing should not come to pass which the LORD spoke not - through impiety the prophet spoke; you shall not receive from him.
DEU 19:1 But whenever the LORD your God should remove from view the nations which your God gives to you of their land, and you should inherit them, and should dwell in their cities, and in their houses;
DEU 19:2 you shall draw apart to yourself three cities in the midst of your land, which the LORD your God gives to you.
DEU 19:3 Take thought to yourself of the way, and you shall make three parts the boundaries of your land which the LORD your God divides to you, and it will be there for a refuge to every man-slayer.
DEU 19:4 And this will be the order for the man-slayer, who ever should flee there, and shall live - who ever should strike his neighbor unintentionally, and this one was not detesting him before yesterday and before the third day.
DEU 19:5 And who ever should enter with the neighbor into the oak grove to bring wood, and his hand was knocked back with the axe while felling the wood, and the iron implement in falling off from the wood handle should happen by chance to strike the neighbor, and he should die - this one shall take refuge in one of these cities, and shall live;
DEU 19:6 lest the one acting as next of kin for blood pursue after the man-slayer, because his heart is overheated, and he overtakes him, if it might be a longer way, and he strikes his life and he should die, and there is not a judgment of death to this man, for he was not detesting him before yesterday, and before the third day.
DEU 19:7 Because of this I give charge to you this thing, saying, Three cities you shall draw apart to yourself.
DEU 19:8 And if the LORD your God should widen your borders, in which manner he swore by an oath to your fathers, and the LORD should give to you all the land which he said he would give to your fathers;
DEU 19:9 if you should listen to do all these commandments which I give charge to you today, to love the LORD your God, to go in all his ways, all the days; then you shall add to yourself again three cities to these three.
DEU 19:10 And the blood of the innocent shall not be poured out in the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot, and there will not be blood liability among you.
DEU 19:11 But if there should be a man detesting his neighbor, and he shall lie in wait for him, and should rise up against him, and should strike his life, and he should die, and he should flee into one of these cities;
DEU 19:12 then they shall send the council of elders of his city, and they shall take him from there, and shall deliver him into the hands to the one acting as next of kin for blood, and he shall die.
DEU 19:13 You shall not spare your eye for him, and you shall cleanse the innocent blood from out of Israel, and it will be good to you.
DEU 19:14 You shall not move the boundaries of your neighbor, which they established prior of you among your inheritance, which you inherited in the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot.
DEU 19:15 You shall not adhere to one witness in witnessing against a man for any injustice, and for any sin, and for any sin which ever he should have sinned. By the mouth of two witnesses, and by the mouth of three witnesses every word shall be established.
DEU 19:16 And if an unjust witness should stand against a man alleging his impiety;
DEU 19:17 then the two men shall stand, in which the dispute is with them, before the LORD, and before the priests, and before the judges as might be in those days.
DEU 19:18 And the judges should inquire exactly. And behold, if an unjust witness witnessed unjustly, opposed against his brother,
DEU 19:19 then you shall do to him in which manner he devised wickedly to do against his brother, and you shall lift away the wicked from out of yourselves.
DEU 19:20 And the rest hearing shall fear, and they shall not add again to do according to this wicked thing among you.
DEU 19:21 Your eye shall not spare him - life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot; in so far as any should give a blemish to the neighbor, thus you shall give to him.
DEU 20:1 And if you should go forth to war against your enemies, and you should behold a horse, and rider, and many more people than you, do not be fearful of them, for the LORD your God is with you, the one bringing you from out of the land of Egypt!
DEU 20:2 And it will be whenever you should approach to the war, that the priest drawing near shall speak to the people, and shall say to them,
DEU 20:3 Hear, O Israel! You go today to war with your enemies. Loosen not your heart; fear not nor be devastated, nor turn aside from their face!
DEU 20:4 For the LORD your God going forth with you shall join in war with you against your enemies, and shall preserve you.
DEU 20:5 And the scribes shall speak to the people, saying, Who is the man building a new house, and did not dedicate it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the war, and another man shall dedicate it!
DEU 20:6 And who is the man whoever plants a vineyard, and was not glad from out of it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he should die in the war, and another man be glad from out of his labor!
DEU 20:7 And who is the man who has espoused a woman, and did not take her? Let him go, and let him return to his house, lest he die in the war, and another man shall take her!
DEU 20:8 And the scribes shall add to speak to the people, and shall say, Who is the man fearing and timid in the heart? Let him go, and let him return to his house, that he should not make timid the heart of his brother, as he!
DEU 20:9 And it will be whenever the scribes should cease speaking to the people, that they shall place rulers of the military taking lead of the people.
DEU 20:10 And if you should come forward to a city to wage war against it, that you should call them forth with peace.
DEU 20:11 And it shall be if then they should peaceably answer you, and open to you, it shall be that all the people being found in it shall be tributaries to you, and subjects to you.
DEU 20:12 But if they should not obey you, and should make war against you, and you shall besiege it,
DEU 20:13 and the LORD your God shall deliver it into your hands, then you shall strike every male of it by carnage of the sword.
DEU 20:14 Except the women, and the belongings, and all the cattle, and all as much as exists in the city, and all the chattel you shall despoil for yourself. And you shall eat all the plunder of your enemy, whom the LORD your God gives to you.
DEU 20:15 Thus you shall do for all the cities being far away from you exceedingly, which are not from the cities of these nations which the LORD your God gives to you to inherit their land.
DEU 20:16 But behold, from the cities of these nations which the LORD your God gives to you to inherit their land, you shall not take alive any one breathing.
DEU 20:17 But you shall devote them to consumption - the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite, and Gergasite; in which manner the LORD your God gave charge to you;
DEU 20:18 that they should not teach you to do all their abominations, as many as they made unto their gods, that you shall sin before the LORD your God.
DEU 20:19 But if you should besiege around a city many days, to wage war against it for taking it, you shall not utterly destroy its trees by putting upon them an iron axe; but of it you shall eat, but you shall not cut it down; nor is a man to enter unto the tree in the grove from your presence for the siege mound?
DEU 20:20 But the tree which you know that it is not fruit-bearing, this you shall annihilate, and shall cut it, and shall build a siege mound at the city, whichever makes war against you, until whenever it should be delivered up.
DEU 21:1 And if a slain person should be found in the earth, (which the LORD your God gives to you to inherit,) fallen in the plain, and they do not know the one striking him;
DEU 21:2 there shall come forth your council of elders, and your judges, and they shall measure out the distances of the cities round about the slain person.
DEU 21:3 And it shall be to the city near to the slain person, that the council of elders of that city shall take a heifer from out of the oxen, which has not worked, and which did not draw a yoke.
DEU 21:4 And the council of elders of that city shall bring the heifer into a rough ravine which has not been worked, nor sowed; and they shall hamstring the heifer in the ravine.
DEU 21:5 And the priests the Levites shall come forward, (for the LORD your God chose them to stand beside him, and to bless over his name) and by their mouth will be every dispute and every blow decided.
DEU 21:6 And all (the council of elders of that city, the ones approaching the slain person,) shall wash their hands over the head of the heifer being hamstrung in the ravine.
DEU 21:7 And answering they shall say, Our hands did not pour out this blood, and our eyes have not seen it.
DEU 21:8 Let kindness come to your people Israel, whom you ransomed from out of the land of Egypt, O LORD, that there should not be innocent blood to your people Israel. And the blood shall be atoned for to them.
DEU 21:9 And you shall lift away the innocent blood from out of you of them, if you should do the good and the pleasing thing before the LORD your God.
DEU 21:10 And whenever you should go forth to war with your enemies, and the LORD your God should deliver them up into your hands, that you should despoil them by plunder.
DEU 21:11 And should you behold among the spoils a woman good to the sight, and should ponder her, and you should take her to yourself for a wife;
DEU 21:12 then you shall bring her inside into your house; and you shall shave her head, and trim her nails;
DEU 21:13 and you shall remove the garments of her captivity from her, and you shall seat her in your house, and she shall weep over her father and mother for a month of days; and after this you shall enter to her, and you shall be living together with her, and she shall be your wife.
DEU 21:14 And it shall be if you should not want her, you shall send her free; and for sale you shall not sell her for silver - you shall not disrespect her, for you humbled her.
DEU 21:15 But if there be to a man two wives, one of them being loved, and one of them being detested, and they should bear with him, both the one being loved and the one being detested, and the first-born son is born of the one being detested;
DEU 21:16 then it shall be in which ever day he should divide by lot to his sons of his possessions, he shall not be able to give the right of the first-born to the son of the one being loved, overlooking the son of the one being detested - the first-born.
DEU 21:17 But the first-born son of the one being detested he shall recognize to give to him double from all which ever should be found by him - for this one is his beginning child; and to this one the rights of the first-born are fitting.
DEU 21:18 And if any might have a son resisting persuasion, and an irritant, not obeying the voice of his father, and the voice of his mother, and they should correct him, and he should not listen to them;
DEU 21:19 then his father and his mother seizing him then shall lead him to the council of elders of his city, and unto the gate of his place.
DEU 21:20 And they shall say to the men of their city, Our son, this one, resists persuasion, and aggravates, not obeying our voice; he is fond of carousing drunk with wine.
DEU 21:21 And the men of his city shall stone him with stones, and he shall die - and thus you shall lift away the wicked from out of you of them; and all Israel hearing shall be fearful.
DEU 21:22 And if there be sin in any with the judgment of death upon him, and he should die, and you should hang him upon a tree,
DEU 21:23 his body shall not rest upon the tree, but by burial you shall entomb him on that day; (for being cursed by God is every one hanging upon a tree;) and in no way shall you defile the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot.
DEU 22:1 In beholding the calf of your brother or of his sheep wandering in the way, do not overlook them - by returning you shall return them to your brother, and you shall give them back to him.
DEU 22:2 And if your brother is not near to you, nor do you know him, you shall bring them inside into your house, and it shall be with you until whenever your brother should seek them, and you shall give them back to him.
DEU 22:3 So shall you do for his donkey, and so you shall do for his garment, and so you shall do according to all loss of your brother; as much as should perish of his, and you should find them - you shall not be able to overlook.
DEU 22:4 You shall not just watch the donkey of your brother, or his calf fallen in the way - you should not overlook them; by raising you shall raise them up for him.
DEU 22:5 The items of a man shall not be upon a woman, nor should a man put on feminine apparel, for every one doing these things is an abomination to the LORD your God.
DEU 22:6 And if you should meet with a nest of birds before your face in the way, or upon any tree, or upon the ground - young chicks or eggs, and the mother should be incubating upon the young, or upon the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the offspring.
DEU 22:7 By discharge you shall send off the mother, but the offspring you shall take to yourself; that it should be good to you, and you shall be of many days.
DEU 22:8 And if you should build a new house, then you shall make a rim for your roof, and you will not cause carnage in your house if should fall one falling from it.
DEU 22:9 You shall not scatter abroad of your vineyard diverse seed, that the produce should not be sanctified, and also the seed which ever you should sow with the produce of your vineyard.
DEU 22:10 You shall not plow with a calf and donkey upon the same yoke.
DEU 22:11 You shall not put on commingled wool and flax upon the same garment.
DEU 22:12 A twisted fringe you shall make for yourself upon the four decorative hems of your wrap-around garments, which ever you should put around yourself by them.
DEU 22:13 And if any should take a wife, and should live with her, and should detest her,
DEU 22:14 and should place upon her words offered as an excuse, and should bring upon her a bad name, and should say, I took this woman, and drawing near to her I did not find her tokens of virginity.
DEU 22:15 And taking, the father of the child and the mother, shall bring forth the tokens of the virginity of the child to the council of elders at the gate.
DEU 22:16 And the father of the child shall say to the council of elders, This daughter of mine I gave to this man as wife, and he is detesting her.
DEU 22:17 He now places upon her words offered as an excuse, saying, I did not find tokens of virginity of your daughter; and these are the tokens of virginity of my daughter. And they shall unfold the garment worn by her before the council of elders of the city.
DEU 22:18 And the council of elders of that city shall take that man, and shall correct him,
DEU 22:19 and shall penalize him a hundred shekels, and shall give them to the father of the young woman, because he brought a bad name upon an Israelite virgin, and she shall be his wife - he shall not be able to send her away at any time.
DEU 22:20 But if in truth this word be, and tokens of virginity should not be found to the young woman -
DEU 22:21 then they shall lead the young woman unto the doors of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones, and she shall die; for she did folly among the sons of Israel, to fornicate the house of her father - and you shall lift away the wicked from out of yourselves of them.
DEU 22:22 And if a man should be found going to bed with a wife living with a husband, you shall kill both, the man going to bed with the wife, and the wife - and you shall lift away the wickedness from out of Israel.
DEU 22:23 And if there be a virgin child being espoused to a man, and a man finding her in the city should have gone to bed with her;
DEU 22:24 you shall lead out both unto the gate of their city, and they shall be stoned with stones, and shall die - the young woman, for she did not yell out in the city; and the man, for he humbled the wife of his neighbor. And you shall lift away the evil from out of yourselves of them.
DEU 22:25 But if a man should find the girl in a plain being espoused, and using force he should go to bed with her - you shall kill the man going to bed with her only;
DEU 22:26 for the young woman shall not do anything, there is not sin worthy of death to the young woman. For as if any man should rise up against his neighbor, and should do murder taking his life, thus is this thing -
DEU 22:27 for in the field he found her; the young woman being espoused yelled, and was there not the one helping her.
DEU 22:28 And if any should find the virgin child, whoever was not espoused, and using force on her, went to bed with her, and he should be found,
DEU 22:29 the man going to bed with her shall give to the father of the young woman fifty double-drachmas of silver, and she will be his wife, because he humbled her - he will not be able to send her away at any time.
DEU 22:30 A man shall not take the wife of his father, and shall not uncover the marriage veil of his father.
DEU 23:1 One with crushed testicles shall not enter (nor being cut off) into the assembly of the LORD.
DEU 23:2 One born of a harlot shall not enter into the assembly of the LORD - unto the tenth generation.
DEU 23:3 The Ammonite and Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of the LORD - even unto the tenth generation. He shall not enter into the assembly of the LORD, even unto into the eon -
DEU 23:4 for reason of their not meeting with you with bread loaves and water in the way of your going forth from out of Egypt; and that they hired against you Balaam son of Beor from out of Mesopotamia to curse you.
DEU 23:5 And the LORD your God wanted not to listen to Balaam; and the LORD your God converted the curses into a blessing, for the LORD your God loved you.
DEU 23:6 You shall not address peaceable to them, nor be advantageous to them all your days into the eon.
DEU 23:7 You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, for you were a sojourner in his land.
DEU 23:8 If they should bear sons to themselves in the third generation, they shall enter into the assembly of the LORD.
DEU 23:9 And if you should go forth to camp against your enemies, then you shall guard from every evil thing.
DEU 23:10 If there might be among you a man who is not clean because of his flow by night, then he shall go forth outside the camp, and he shall not enter into the camp.
DEU 23:11 And it will be towards evening he shall bathe his body in water; and at the going down of the sun, he shall enter into the camp.
DEU 23:12 And a place will be for you outside the camp, and you shall go forth there outside,
DEU 23:13 and a trowel will be upon your belt, and it will be whenever you should sit separately outside, that you shall dig with it, and bringing it you shall cover your indecency by it.
DEU 23:14 For the LORD your God walks about in your camp to rescue you, and to deliver up your enemy before your face; and your camp shall be holy, and there shall not be seen among you a thing of indecency, that he shall turn away from you.
DEU 23:15 You shall not deliver up a servant to his master, who was added to you by his master;
DEU 23:16 he shall dwell with you, among you, in every place of which ever it should please him. You shall not afflict him.
DEU 23:17 There shall not be a harlot from the daughters of Israel, and there shall not be one whoring from the sons of Israel.
DEU 23:18 You shall not bring the hire of a harlot, nor the price of a dog, into the house of the LORD your God for any vow - For even both are an abomination to the LORD your God.
DEU 23:19 You shall not lend to your brother with interest of silver, and interest of foods, and interest of any thing of which ever you should lend.
DEU 23:20 To the alien you may lend with interest, but to your brother you shall not lend with interest, that the LORD your God should bless you in all your works upon the land into which you enter there to inherit it.
DEU 23:21 And if you shall vow a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not pass time to render it - for requiring, the LORD your God shall require it from you; and it will be sin to you.
DEU 23:22 But if you should not want to make a vow, it is not a sin to you.
DEU 23:23 The things going forth through your lips you shall guard, and you shall do in which manner you made a vow to the LORD your God, in the matter of a gift which your mouth spoke.
DEU 23:24 And if you enter into the vineyard of your neighbor, you may eat as much grape as to fill up your soul, but you shall not put them into a container.
DEU 23:25 And if you should enter into the harvest field of your neighbor, then you may collect together an ear of wheat in your hands; but the sickle in no way shall be put upon the harvest of your neighbor.
DEU 24:1 And if any take a wife, and should live with her, and it shall be if she should not find favor before him, for he finds in her an indecent thing - then he shall write to her a certificate of divorce scroll, and shall put it into her hands, and shall send her from out of his house.
DEU 24:2 And going forth, should she become another man's wife,
DEU 24:3 and the last husband should detest her, and should write to her certificate of divorce scroll, and should put it into her hands, and send her from out of his house; or her last husband should die, who took her to himself as wife;
DEU 24:4 the former husband sending her out shall not be able to return to take her to himself for a wife, after her being defiled - for it is an abomination before the LORD your God. And you shall not defile the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot.
DEU 24:5 And if any should take a wife recently, he shall not go forth to war, and not one thing shall be put upon him - he shall be innocent in his house; for one year he shall make glad his wife whom he took.
DEU 24:6 You shall not take for security a millstone nor an upper millstone; for this one takes a life for security.
DEU 24:7 And if you should capture a man stealing the life slavery. of his brothers of the sons of Israel, and tyrannizing him to sell him; that thief shall die; and you shall lift away the evil from out of yourselves of them.
DEU 24:8 Take heed to yourself in the infection of leprosy! You shall guard exceedingly to do according to all the law which ever the priests the Levites should announce to you - in which manner I gave charge to you you guard to do!
DEU 24:9 Remember as much as the LORD your God did to Miriam in the way of your going forth from out of Egypt!
DEU 24:10 And if a debt might be owed by your neighbor, any debt whatsoever, you shall not enter into his house to take for security of his item for security.
DEU 24:11 You shall stand outside, and the man of whom your loan is with, he shall bring forth to you the item of security outside.
DEU 24:12 But if the man should be in need, you shall not go to bed with his item of security.
DEU 24:13 By restitution you shall give back to him his item of security towards the descent of the sun, and he shall go to bed in his garment, and he will bless you - and it will be to you charity before the LORD your God.
DEU 24:14 You shall not disregard the wage of the needy, and one lacking from out of your brothers, or of the foreigners in your cities.
DEU 24:15 Daily you shall give him his wage - the sun shall not set upon him; for he is needy, and in it he has hope; and thus he shall not yell out against you to the LORD; and it will be to you a sin.
DEU 24:16 Fathers shall not die for the children, and the sons shall not die for the fathers - each for his own sin shall die.
DEU 24:17 You shall not turn aside a judgment of a foreigner, and an orphan, and a widow; and you shall not take for security a garment of a widow.
DEU 24:18 And you shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God ransomed you from there - on account of this I give charge to you to do this thing.
DEU 24:19 And if you should reap your harvest in your field, and you should forget a sheaf in your field, you shall not turn back to take it - to the poor, and to the foreigner, and to the orphan, and to the widow it will be; that the LORD your God should bless you in every work of your hands.
DEU 24:20 And if one should pick olives, you shall not turn back to glean after yourself - it shall be to the foreigner and to the orphan and to the widow.
DEU 24:21 And whenever you should gather the vintage of your vineyard, you shall not glean the things after youself - it will be for the foreigner and the orphan and the widow.
DEU 24:22 And you shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt - on account of this I give charge to you to do this thing.
DEU 25:1 And if there be a dispute between men, and they should come forward for judgment, and they should judge, and should do justice for the just, and should condemn the impious one;
DEU 25:2 then it will be if the one being impious might be worthy of strokes, they shall sit him before the judges, and they shall whip him before them according to his impiety.
DEU 25:3 They shall whip him forty stripes in number; they shall not add more. But if he should add to whip him above these, by the strokes being more, you shall be disgraced of your brother before you.
DEU 25:4 You shall not muzzle an ox threshing.
DEU 25:5 And if brothers should dwell in the same place, and one of them should die, and there might not be seed to him, the wife of the one having died shall not be outside the husband's family not near. The brother of her husband shall enter to her, and he shall take her to himself as wife, and he shall live with her.
DEU 25:6 And it will be, that the male child, who ever she should give birth to, shall be ordained from out of the name of the one coming to an end, and his name shall not be wiped away from out of Israel.
DEU 25:7 But if the man does not want to take the wife of his brother, then the woman shall ascend unto the gate to the council of elders, and shall say, The brother of my husband does not want to raise up the name of his brother in Israel - the brother of my husband does not want to.
DEU 25:8 And the council of elders of that city shall call him, and they shall speak to him. And standing, should he say, I am not willing to take her.
DEU 25:9 Then the wife of his brother coming forward to him, before the council of elders, then shall untie his sandal, the one from his foot, and shall spit into his face; and responding she shall say, Thus shall they do to the man who shall not build the house of his brother.
DEU 25:10 And his name shall be called in Israel, House of the Untied Sandal.
DEU 25:11 And if two men should do combat at the same time - a man against his brother; and should come forward the wife of one of them to rescue her husband from out of the hand of the one beating him, and stretching out her hand should take hold of his twins -
DEU 25:12 you shall cut off her hand; your eye shall not spare over her.
DEU 25:13 There shall not be in your money bag a false weight and a true weight - great or small.
DEU 25:14 There shall not be in your house a false measure and a true measure - great or a small.
DEU 25:15 There shall be to you a true and just weight, and there shall be to you a true and just measure, that you should be many days upon the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot.
DEU 25:16 For every one doing these things is an abomination to the LORD your God - every one doing unjustly.
DEU 25:17 Remember as many things Amalek did to you in the way of your going forth from out of Egypt!
DEU 25:18 How he opposed you in the way, and beat your rear guard, ( even the ones tiring in your rear, and you hungered and were tired;) and he did not fear God.
DEU 25:19 And it will be when ever the LORD your God rests you from all your enemies round about you in the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot to inherit, you shall wipe away the name Amalek from out of under the heaven, and in no way should you forget.
DEU 26:1 And it will be whenever you should enter into the land which the LORD your God gives to you by lot to inherit it, and you should dwell upon it;
DEU 26:2 that you shall take from the first-fruit of the fruits of your land, which the LORD your God gives by lot, and you shall put them into a basket, and you shall go into the place which ever the LORD your God should choose to call upon his name there.
DEU 26:3 And you shall come to the priest, who ever might be in those days, and say to him, I announce today to the LORD your God, that I have entered into the land which the LORD swore by an oath to our fathers to give to us.
DEU 26:4 And the priest shall take the basket from out of your hands, and shall put it before the altar of the LORD your God.
DEU 26:5 And you shall respond and say before the LORD your God, My father threw off Syria, and went down into Egypt, and sojourned there with few in number, and became there into a great nation and a populous multitude.
DEU 26:6 And the Egyptians maltreated us, and humbled us, and placed upon us hard works.
DEU 26:7 And we yelled out to the LORD God of our fathers. And the LORD listened to our voice, and beheld our humiliation, and our trouble, and our affliction.
DEU 26:8 And the LORD led us from out of Egypt with great strength, and with a fortified hand, and with a high arm, and with great visions, and with signs, and with miracles.
DEU 26:9 And he brought us into this place. And he gave to us this land - a land flowing milk and honey.
DEU 26:10 And now, behold, I have brought the first-fruit of the produces of the land which you gave to me, O LORD. And you shall leave it before the LORD your God, and shall do obeisance before the LORD your God.
DEU 26:11 And you shall be glad in all the good things which the LORD your God gave to you, and to your family - you, and the Levite, and the foreigner among you.
DEU 26:12 And whenever you should complete to tithe all the tenth part of the produce of your land in the third year, the second tenth part you shall give to the Levite, and to the foreigner, and to the orphan, and to the widow; and they shall eat in your cities, and they shall be satisfied.
DEU 26:13 And you shall say before the LORD your God, I cleared the holy things from out of my house, and I gave them to the Levite, and to the foreigner, and to the orphan, and to the widow, according to all your commandments which you gave charge to me - I did not pass by your commandment, and I did not forget.
DEU 26:14 And I did not eat of them in my grief; I did not yield of them in an unclean manner; I did not give of them to the one having died; I obeyed the voice of the LORD my God to do as he gave charge to me.
DEU 26:15 Look down from out of your holy house, from out of heaven, and bless your people Israel, and the land which you gave to them, as you swore by an oath to our fathers, to give to us a land flowing milk and honey!
DEU 26:16 On this day the LORD your God gave charge to you to do all these ordinances and judgments. And you shall guard and observe them from out of your entire heart, and from out of your entire soul.
DEU 26:17 You took God today to be your God, and to go in all his ways, and to guard the ordinances, and the commandments, and his judgments, and to obey his voice.
DEU 26:18 And the LORD took you today for you to be to him a prized people, just as he spoke to you - for you to guard all his commandments;
DEU 26:19 and for you to be above all the nations, as he made you famous, and a boasting, and glorious; for you to be a holy people to the LORD your God, as he spoke.
DEU 27:1 And Moses and the council of elders of Israel assigned, saying, Guard all the commandments, as many as I give charge to you today!
DEU 27:2 And it will be in which ever day you should pass over the Jordan into the land which the LORD your God gives to you, that you shall set up to yourself great stones, and you shall whitewash them in lime.
DEU 27:3 And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law, as whenever you should pass over the Jordan, when ever you should enter into the land which the LORD your God gives to you, a land flowing milk and honey; in which manner the LORD God of your fathers spoke to you.
DEU 27:4 And it will be as when ever you should pass over the Jordan, you shall set these stones, which I give charge to you today, on mount Ebal, and you shall whitewash them with lime.
DEU 27:5 And you shall build there an altar to the LORD your God, an altar from out of stones - you shall not put upon them an iron tool.
DEU 27:6 Of whole stones you shall build the altar to the LORD your God. And you shall offer upon it whole burnt offerings to the LORD your God.
DEU 27:7 And you shall sacrifice a sacrifice of deliverance offering, and shall eat there, and shall be filled up, and shall be glad before the LORD your God.
DEU 27:8 And you shall write upon the stones all this law - very clearly.
DEU 27:9 And Moses and the priests the Levites spoke to all Israel, saying, Keep silent, and hearken, O Israel! On this day you have become a people to the LORD your God.
DEU 27:10 And you shall listen to the voice of the LORD your God, and you shall observe all his commandments and his ordinances, which I give charge to you today.
DEU 27:11 And Moses gave charge to the people in that day, saying,
DEU 27:12 These shall stand to bless the people in mount Gerizim, when passing over the Jordan - Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
DEU 27:13 And these shall stand for the curse on mount Ebal - Reuben, Gad, and Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
DEU 27:14 And the Levites responding shall say to all Israel with a great voice,
DEU 27:15 Accursed is the man who shall make a carving and a molten image, an abomination to the LORD, a work of the hands of a craftsman, and shall put it in concealmenta niche.. And answering all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:16 Accursed is the one dishonoring his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:17 Accursed is the one altering boundaries of the neighbor. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:18 Accursed is the one misleading the blind in the way. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:19 Accursed is who ever turns aside a judgment which favors a foreigner, and orphan, and widow. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:20 Accursed is the one going to bed with the wife of his father, for he uncovered the marriage veil of his father. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:21 Accursed is the one going to bed with any beast. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:22 Accursed is the one going to bed with a sister from out of his father or mother. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:23 Accursed is the one going to bed with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, May it be. Accursed is the one going to bed with a sister of his wife. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:24 Accursed is the one striking his neighbor with treachery. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:25 Accursed is who ever should take bribes to strike the life of innocent blood. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 27:26 Accursed is every man whoever shall not adhere to all the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, May it be.
DEU 28:1 If in hearing you should hear the voice of the LORD your God, to guard and to observe all his commandments which I give charge to you today, then the LORD your God shall appoint you above all the nations of the earth.
DEU 28:2 Then all these blessings shall come upon you, and shall find you, if in hearing you should listen to the voice of the LORD your God.
DEU 28:3 Being blessed are you in the city, and being blessed are you in the field.
DEU 28:4 Being blessed are the progeny of your belly, and the produce of your land, and the herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep.
DEU 28:5 Being blessed are your storehouses and your surpluses.
DEU 28:6 Being blessed are you in your entering, and being blessed are you in your going forth.
DEU 28:7 The LORD your God shall deliver up your enemies opposing you by breaking them before your face - in one way they shall come forth against you, and in seven ways they will flee from your face.
DEU 28:8 May the LORD send upon you the blessing among your storerooms, and on all what ever you should put your hand. And he will bless you upon the land of which the LORD your God gives to you.
DEU 28:9 May The LORD your God raise you up to himself as a holy people, in which manner he swore by an oath to your fathers, if you should hearken to the voice of the LORD your God, and should go in his ways.
DEU 28:10 And all the nations of the earth shall see you that the name of the LORD is called upon by you; and they shall fear you.
DEU 28:11 And the LORD your God shall multiply you for good things upon the progeny of your belly, and upon the progeny of your cattle, and upon the produce of your ground, upon the land which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers to give to you.
DEU 28:12 May the LORD open to you his good treasury - the heaven, to give the rain to your land in its season; to bless all the works of your hands. And you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow. And you yourself shall rule many nations, but they shall not rule you.
DEU 28:13 May the LORD your God place you as head, and not as the tail; and you will be then above, and you will not be underneath; if you should hearken to the commandments of the LORD your God, as many as I give charge to you today, to guard and to observe.
DEU 28:14 You shall not transgress from all of the words which I give charge to you today, to the right, or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
DEU 28:15 And it shall be if you should not listen to the voice of the LORD your God, to guard and to observe all his commandments, as many as I give charge to you today; then shall come upon you all these curses, and they shall overtake you.
DEU 28:16 Accursed are you in the city, and accursed are you in the field.
DEU 28:17 Accursed are your storehouses, and your surpluses.
DEU 28:18 Accursed are the progeny of your belly, and the produce of your land, and the herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep.
DEU 28:19 Accursed are you in your entering, and accursed are you in your going forth.
DEU 28:20 May the LORD send upon you lack, and craving, and consumption upon all things of which ever you should put your hand upon, as much as you should do, until whenever he should utterly destroy you, and until whenever he should consume you quickly; because of your wicked practices, for you abandoned me.
DEU 28:21 May the LORD cleave the plague to you until whenever he should completely consume you from the land into which you enter there to inherit it -
DEU 28:22 for the LORD to strike you with perplexity, and burning heat, and shivering, and aggravation, and carnage, and wind-blown, and paleness; and may they pursue you until whenever they should destroy you.
DEU 28:23 And the heaven above your head will be as brass to you, and the earth underneath you as iron.
DEU 28:24 May the LORD appoint the rain of your land a cloud of dust; and dust from out of the heaven shall come down upon you, until it should obliterate you, and until whenever it should destroy you.
DEU 28:25 May the LORD appoint you for slaughter before your enemies. In one way you shall go forth against them, and in seven ways you shall flee from their face. And you will be in dispersion among all the kingdoms of the earth.
DEU 28:26 And your dead will be things devoured by the winged creatures of the heaven, and the wild beasts of the earth - and there will not be one frightening away.
DEU 28:27 The LORD strike you with the sore of Egypt in the buttocks, and wild mange, and itching, so as to not be able to heal.
DEU 28:28 The LORD strike you in derangement, and inability to see, and an astonishment of thought.
DEU 28:29 And you will be groping at midday as the blind one gropes in the darkness, and your ways will not prosper. And you will be then injured and torn in pieces all the days, and there shall not be one helping you.
DEU 28:30 You shall take a wife, and another man shall have her. You shall build a house, and you shall not live in it. You shall plant a vineyard, and in no way shall you gather its vintage.
DEU 28:31 Your calf being slain before you, and you will not eat from out of it. Your donkey being seized by force from you, and it shall not be given back to you. Your sheep being given to your enemies, and there shall not be one helping you.
DEU 28:32 Your sons and your daughters will be given to another nation, and your eyes shall see being inflamed over them. And your hand shall not be strong.
DEU 28:33 The resources of your land, and all the things of your toils a nation shall eat, which you have not knowledge of; and you will be injured and devastated all the days.
DEU 28:34 And you will be deranged through the visions of your eyes which you shall see,
DEU 28:35 for the LORD to strike you with a severe sore upon the knees, and upon the shanks, so as to not be able to heal yourself from the sole of your feet unto the top of your head.
DEU 28:36 May the LORD take you, and your rulers, whom ever you should place over yourself, by a nation who you have not knowledge of yourself, nor your fathers; and you shall serve there to other gods of wood and stone.
DEU 28:37 And you will be there for an enigma, and a parable, and a tale, in all the nations into which ever the LORD should take you there.
DEU 28:38 Much seed you shall bring forth in the plain, and little will be carried in; for the locust shall eat them.
DEU 28:39 You shall plant and work a vineyard, but wine you shall not drink, nor will you be glad from out of it; for the worm shall eat it.
DEU 28:40 Olive trees will be to you in all your borders, but with olive oil you will not anoint; for your olive shall flow away.
DEU 28:41 Sons and daughters you shall bear, but they shall not be yours; for they shall go forth in captivity.
DEU 28:42 All your woods and the produce of your land the blight shall completely consume.
DEU 28:43 The foreigner who is among you shall ascend over you upward and upward; but you shall go down lower and lower.
DEU 28:44 This one shall lend to you, but you shall not lend to this one. This one will be for the head, and you will be for the tail.
DEU 28:45 And all these curses shall come upon you, and shall pursue you, and overtake you, until whenever they shall utterly destroy you, and until whenever they shall consume you; for listened not to the voice of the LORD your God, to guard his commandments, and his ordinances, as many as I gave charge to you.
DEU 28:46 And it will be for signs to you, and miracles, and among your seed until the eon;
DEU 28:47 because you served not the LORD your God with gladness, and with a good heart; on account of the multitude of all these.
DEU 28:48 And you shall serve to your enemies whom the LORD shall send as a successor over you in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things. And he shall put a collar of iron upon your neck, until whenever he should utterly destroy you.
DEU 28:49 The LORD shall bring upon you a nation far off from the end of the earth, as the impulse of an eagle; a nation of which you will not hear its voice;
DEU 28:50 a nation impudent in its face, which will not admire the face of an old man, and will not show mercy for the young.
DEU 28:51 And it will devour the progeny of your cattle, and the produce of your land, so as to not leave behind for you grain, wine, olive oil, herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep, until whenever it should destroy you,
DEU 28:52 and should obliterate you in all your cities; until whenever your walls should be demolished - the high and the fortified ones upon which you rely upon them in all your land. And it shall afflict you in all your cities, which the LORD your God gave to you.
DEU 28:53 And you shall eat the progeny of your belly - the meat of your sons and your daughters, as many as the LORD your God gave to you in your straits, and in your affliction, in which your enemy shall afflict you.
DEU 28:54 The one tender among you, and the very delicate shall charm with his eye his brother, and the wife in his bosom, and the left behind children, who ever should be left to him;
DEU 28:55 so as to give one of them from the flesh of his children whom ever he should eat - because of the not having left behind to him anything in the straits, and in the affliction, in which ever your enemies should afflict you in all your cities.
DEU 28:56 And the tender among you, and the exceedingly delicate one, of whom has not taken an attempt with her foot to go upon the land because of the delicacy, and because of the tenderness - she shall charm with her eye her husband near her bosom, and her son and daughter;
DEU 28:57 and her afterbirth coming forth through her thighs, and her child which ever she should give birth to - they she shall eat them because of the lack of all things, secretly, in the straits, and in the affliction by which your enemy shall afflict you in your cities.
DEU 28:58 If you should not hearken to do all the discourses of this law being written in this scroll, to fear this wonderful and valued name - the LORD your God;
DEU 28:59 then the LORD will render notorious your calamities, and the calamities of your seed - great and surprising calamities, and severe and sure diseases.
DEU 28:60 And he shall turn upon you all the grief of Egypt, the severe grief which you were on guard from in front of them - and they shall cleave to you.
DEU 28:61 And every infirmity, and every calamity not being written, and every one being written in this scroll of the law, the LORD shall bring upon you, until whenever he should utterly destroy you.
DEU 28:62 And you shall be left behind few in number, because it was that you were as the stars of the heaven in multitude; for you hearkened not to the voice of the LORD your God.
DEU 28:63 And it will be in the manner the LORD was glad over you to do good for you, and to multiply you; so the LORD will be glad over you to utterly destroy you, and to lift you away from the land into which you enter there to inherit it.
DEU 28:64 And the LORD your God will disperse you into all the nations, from the tip of the earth, unto the other tip of the earth. And you shall slave there to other gods of wood and stone, which you have not knowledge of nor your fathers.
DEU 28:65 But also in those nations he will not rest you, nor not in any way will the sole of your foot become stationary. And the LORD will give to you there another heart being depressed, and failing eyes, and a melting soul.
DEU 28:66 And your life will be hanging before your eyes. And you shall have fear day and night, and not ha ve trust in your life.
DEU 28:67 In the morning you shall say, O how that it might become evening. And in the evening you shall say, O how that it might become morning - from the fear of your heart of which you shall have fear, and from the visions of your eyes which you shall see.
DEU 28:68 And the LORD will return you unto Egypt in boats, and in the way which I said, You shall not proceed again to behold it. And you shall be sold there to your enemies for menservants and maidservants, and there shall not be one acquiring you.
DEU 29:1 These are the words of the covenant of which the LORD gave charge to Moses to establish with the sons of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant of which he ordained with them in Horeb.
DEU 29:2 And Moses called all the sons of Israel, and said to them, You see all as many things as the LORD your God did in the land of Egypt before you to Pharaoh, and his attendants, and all his land;
DEU 29:3 the great tests which your eyes have seen; the signs and those great miracles, by the strong hand, and the high arm.
DEU 29:4 And the LORD God gave not to you a heart to behold, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, until this day.
DEU 29:5 And he led you forty years in the wilderness. Your garments did not become old, and your sandals did not wear away from your feet.
DEU 29:6 You did not eat bread, you did not drink wine and liquor, that you should know that this is the LORD your God.
DEU 29:7 And you came unto this place. And came forth Sihon king of Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan to meet us in war.
DEU 29:8 And we struck them, and took their land, and gave it by lot to Reuben, and to Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh.
DEU 29:9 And you shall guard all the words of this covenant, to do them, that you should perceive all as much as you do.
DEU 29:10 You all stand today before the LORD your God; your tribal chiefs, and your council of elders, and your judges, and your judicial recorders - every man of Israel,
DEU 29:11 your wives, and your children, and the foreigner in the midst of your camp, from your woodcutter and unto your water-carrier,
DEU 29:12 to go in the covenant of the LORD your God, and in his oaths, as many as the LORD your God ordains for you today;
DEU 29:13 that he should establish you to himself for a people, and he will be your God, in which manner he said to you, and in which manner he swore by an oath to your fathers - Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob.
DEU 29:14 And not to you alone I ordain this covenant and this oath,
DEU 29:15 but also to the ones here being with you today before the LORD your God, and to the ones not being with you here today.
DEU 29:16 (For you know how we dwelt in the land of Egypt; as we went by in the midst of the nations which you went by;
DEU 29:17 and you beheld their abominations, and their idols - wood and stone, silver and gold, which is among them;)
DEU 29:18 lest there is among you a man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose thought turned aside from the LORD your God, to go to serve to the gods of those nations; lest there is among you a root germinating bile and bitterness upward;
DEU 29:19 and it shall be if you should hear the words of this imprecation, and one should portend in his heart, saying, May sacred things happen to me, for I shall go by the digression of my heart, that the sinner should not be destroyed together with the sinless,
DEU 29:20 not in no way should God want to propitiate for him, but then the anger of the LORD shall be burned away, and his zeal against that man; and all the imprecations of this covenant shall cleave to him, the ones being written in this scroll of the law; and the LORD will wipe away his name from out of under heaven.
DEU 29:21 And the LORD shall separate him for evils from out of all the sons of Israel, according to all the imprecations of the covenant being written in this scroll of the law.
DEU 29:22 And another generation shall speak (your sons who rise up after you, and the alien which ever should come from out of a land far off, and they shall see the calamities of that land, and its diseases, which the LORD sent unto it,
DEU 29:23 sulphur and salt incinerating - all its land shall not be sown, nor shall rise, nor should ascend upon it any green thing, as Sodom and Gomorrah were eradicated - Admah and Zeboim, which the LORD eradicated in rage and anger,)
DEU 29:24 and all the nations shall say, Why did the \Scap lord do thus to this land? What is this great rage of anger?
DEU 29:25 And they shall say, Because they left the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers, which he ordained with their fathers, when he led them out of the land of Egypt.
DEU 29:26 And going they served other gods, and did obeisance to them - ones which they had not a knowledge of, nor knowledge spread to them.
DEU 29:27 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage over that land, to bring upon it according to all the imprecations being written in this scroll of the law.
DEU 29:28 And the LORD lifted them from their land in rage and anger, and an exceedingly great fit of temper, and cast them into another land as now.
DEU 29:29 The secret things belong to the LORD our God - but the open things are to you, and to our children into the eon, to do all the words of this law.
DEU 30:1 And it will be whenever all these things should come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I put before your face, and you shall take them into your heart in all the nations, of which ever the LORD your God should disperse you there;
DEU 30:2 and you shall turn towards the LORD your God, and you shall hearken to his voice, according to all as much as I give charge to you today, from out of your entire heart, and from out of your entire soul;
DEU 30:3 that the LORD shall heal your sins, and shall show mercy on you, and again shall bring you from out of all the nations into which the LORD your God dispersed you there.
DEU 30:4 Even if your dispersion might be from one tip of the heaven unto one tip of the heaven, from there the LORD your God shall bring you, and from there he will take you.
DEU 30:5 And the LORD your God will bring you into the land which your fathers inherited, and you shall inherit it; and he will do you good, and will do superabundant for you above your fathers.
DEU 30:6 And the LORD shall purge your heart, and the heart of your seed, to love the LORD your God from out of your entire heart, and from out of your entire soul, that you should live.
DEU 30:7 And the LORD your God shall put these curses upon your enemies, and upon the ones detesting you, who pursued you.
DEU 30:8 And you shall turn and shall listen to the voice of the LORD your God, and shall observe his commandments, as many as I give charge to you today.
DEU 30:9 And the LORD your God shall take great care of you in every work of your hands, in the progeny of your belly, and in the progeny of your cattle, and in the produce of your land - for the LORD your God shall turn to be glad over you for good things, as he was glad over your fathers,
DEU 30:10 if you should hearken to the voice of the LORD your God, to guard his commandments, and his ordinances written in the scroll of this law, if you turn to the LORD your God with your entire heart, and with your entire soul.
DEU 30:11 For this commandment which I give charge to you today is not enormous, nor is it far from you.
DEU 30:12 It is not in the heaven, saying, Who shall ascend of us into the heaven, and shall take it to us, and hearing it we will do it?
DEU 30:13 Nor is it on the other side of the sea, saying, Who will pass through for us to the other side of the sea, and shall take it for us, and hearing it we will do it?
DEU 30:14 But the word is very near you - in your mouth, and in your heart, and in your hands to do it.
DEU 30:15 Behold, I put before your face today life and death, good and bad.
DEU 30:16 But if you should hearken to the commandments of the LORD your God, which I give charge to you today, to love the LORD your God, to go in all his ways, and to guard his ordinances, and his commandments, and his judgments, then you shall live, and you will be populous, and the LORD your God will bless you in all the land into which you enter there to inherit it.
DEU 30:17 And if your heart should change over, and you should not listen, and in wandering you should do obeisance to other gods, and should serve them;
DEU 30:18 I announce to you today, that by destruction you will be destroyed, and in no way shall there be many days upon the land, into which you pass over the Jordan there to inherit it.
DEU 30:19 I call to testify to you today both the heaven and the earth - life and death I put before your face; the blessing and the curse; then choose life that you should live and your seed;
DEU 30:20 to love the LORD your God, to listen to his voice, and to hold what is of his. For this is your life, and the duration of your days - to dwell upon the land of which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers, to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, to give it to them.
DEU 31:1 And Moses completed speaking all these words to all the sons of Israel.
DEU 31:2 And he said to them, A hundred and twenty years I am today. I shall not be able still to enter and go forth, for the LORD said to me, You shall not pass over this Jordan.
DEU 31:3 The LORD your God, the one going forth before your face, he shall utterly destroy these nations from your face, and you shall inherit them - and Joshua is the one going forth before your face, as spoke the LORD.
DEU 31:4 And the LORD shall do to them as he did to Sihon and Og, to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, and to their land, in so far as he utterly destroyed them.
DEU 31:5 And the LORD delivered them up before you; and you shall do to them in so far as I gave charge to you.
DEU 31:6 Be manly and be strong! Do not fear nor should you be timid, nor should you be terrified from their face! For the LORD your God, the one going before with you - not in any way should he forsake you, nor in any way should he abandon you.
DEU 31:7 And Moses called Joshua, and said to him before all Israel, Be manly and strong! For you shall enter before the face of this people, into the land which the LORD swore by an oath to your fathers to give to them; and you shall allot it to them.
DEU 31:8 And the LORD, the one going with you, he will not forsake you, nor in any way abandon you. Do not fear nor be timid!
DEU 31:9 And Moses wrote the sayings of this law in a scroll, and gave it to the priests, to the sons of Levi lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and to the elders of the sons of Israel.
DEU 31:10 And Moses gave charge to them in that day, saying, After seven years, in the time of the year of release, in the holiday of pitching of tents,
DEU 31:11 in the going with all Israel to appear before the LORD your God, in the place in which ever the LORD should choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their ears.
DEU 31:12 Assemble the people - the men, and the women, and the progeny, and the foreigner in your cities! That they should hear, and that they should learn to fear the LORD your God. And they shall hearken to do all the words of this law.
DEU 31:13 And their sons who have not known, shall hear, and shall learn to fear the LORD your God all the days, as many as they live upon the land into which you pass over the Jordan there to inherit it.
DEU 31:14 And the LORD said to Moses, Behold, the days of your death are approaching. Call Joshua, and stand by the door of the tent of the testimony, and I will give charge to him! And Moses and Joshua went into the tent of the testimony, and stood by the door of the tent of the testimony.
DEU 31:15 And the LORD came down in a column of cloud. And it stood at the door of the tent of the testimony - even the column of cloud stood by the door of the tent.
DEU 31:16 And the LORD said to Moses, Behold, you go to sleep with your fathers; and rising up, this people shall fornicate after alien gods of the land into which this people enter there into it. And they shall forsake me, and shall efface my covenant which I ordained with them.
DEU 31:17 And I shall be provoked to anger in rage with them in that day, and I will leave them, and I will turn my face from them, and they shall be a thing devoured, and many evils and afflictions shall find it; and it shall say in that day, For the LORD my God is not among me is why these evils found me.
DEU 31:18 And I in turning will turn away my face from them in that day because of all the evils which they did, for they turned away unto alien gods.
DEU 31:19 And now write the words of this ode, and teach it to the sons of Israel! And you shall put it into their mouth, that this ode should be to me a testimony among the sons of Israel.
DEU 31:20 For I shall bring them into the good land which I swore by an oath to their fathers, a land flowing milk and honey; and they shall eat; and being filled up, they shall satisfy themselves, and shall turn to alien gods, and shall serve to them, and shall provoke me, and shall efface my covenant which I ordained with them.
DEU 31:21 And it will be whenever many evils and afflictions shall find it, that this ode shall stand firm witnessing against their face. For not in any way should they forget it from their mouth, and from the mouth of their seed. For I perceive their wickedness, as much as they do here today - before my bringing them into the good land which I swore by an oath to their fathers.
DEU 31:22 And Moses wrote this ode in that day, and taught it to the sons of Israel.
DEU 31:23 And Moses gave charge to Joshua son of Nun, and said, Be manly and be strong! For you shall bring the sons of Israel into the land which the LORD swore by an oath to them; and he will be with you.
DEU 31:24 And when Moses completed writing all the words of this law in a scroll, until completion,
DEU 31:25 that he gave charge to the Levites lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD, saying,
DEU 31:26 Taking the scroll of this law, you shall put it sideways in the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, and it will be there to you for a testimony.
DEU 31:27 For I know the aggravation caused by you, and your hard neck. For still in my living with you today, you were embittering greatly the things towards God; how not so also at the last at my death?
DEU 31:28 Hold an assembly for me of your tribal chiefs, and your elders, and your judicial recorders, that I should speak into their ears all these words. And I call to testify to them both the heaven and the earth.
DEU 31:29 For I know that at the last of my decease, with lawlessness you shall act lawlessly, and shall turn aside from out of the way of which I gave charge to you; and evils shall meet with you at the last of the days; for you shall do the evil before the LORD to provoke him to anger by the works of your hands.
DEU 31:30 And Moses spoke into the ears of all the assembly of Israel the words of this ode, until completion.
DEU 32:1 Take heed, O heaven, and I will speak! And hear, O earth, the discourses from out of my mouth!
DEU 32:2 Expect my maxims as rain, and let my discourses go down as dew - as a heavy shower upon wild grass, and as snowflakes upon grass!
DEU 32:3 For I called the name of the LORD. Give greatness to our God!
DEU 32:4 God - his works are true, and all his ways are equity. God is trustworthy, and there is not an injustice in him. Just and sacred is the LORD.
DEU 32:5 They sinned - they are not his children; one scoffing - a crooked generation, and one turning aside.
DEU 32:6 Do you recompense these things to the LORD thus, O people, moronish and not wise? Did he not (this your father) acquire you, and make you, and shape you?
DEU 32:7 Remember the days of the eon! Perceive indeed the years of the generations of generations! Ask your father, and he will announce to you; your elders, and they shall speak to you!
DEU 32:8 When the highest divided nations into parts, as he disseminated the sons of Adam, he set the borders of nations according to the number of the angels of God.
DEU 32:9 and His people Jacob became a portion for the LORD - Israel is a piece of measured out land of his inheritance.
DEU 32:10 He sufficed him in a wilderness land, in thirst of sweltering heat in a waterless land. He encircled him, and corrected him, and guarded him as a pupil of an eye.
DEU 32:11 As an eagle sheltering his nest, he longs after and over his young. Thrusting out his wings he receives them, and takes them upon his upper back.
DEU 32:12 The LORD alone led them, and there was not with them an alien god.
DEU 32:13 He brought them unto the strength of the land. He fed them produce of fields. They nursed honey out of the rock, and olive oil out of the solid rock.
DEU 32:14 Butter of oxen, and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs and rams, offspring of bulls and he-goats, with fat of kidneys of wheat, and they drank wine the blood of the grape.
DEU 32:15 And Jacob ate and was filled up - even the one being loved kicked up. He was fattened; he was thickened; he was widened - and he abandoned God, the one making him. And he left from God his deliverer.
DEU 32:16 They provoked me over alien ones - in their abominations they greatly embittered me.
DEU 32:17 They sacrificed to demons, and not to God - to gods in whom they knew not. New and newly made gods have come, in whom their fathers knew not.
DEU 32:18 God, the one creating you, you abandoned; and you forgot God, the one maintaining you.
DEU 32:19 And the LORD beheld, and was jealous; and he was provoked to anger by their sons and daughters.
DEU 32:20 And he said, I will turn away my face from them, and I will show what will be to them at the last times, for it is a generation being distorted; sons in whom there is not belief in them.
DEU 32:21 They provoked me to jealousy over that which is not god - they provoked me to anger with their idols. And I will provoke them to jealousy over that not a nation; by a senseless nation I will provoke them to anger.
DEU 32:22 For a fire burns away of my rage - it shall be burned unto lower Hades; it shall devour the land, and its produce; it shall blaze on the foundations of mountains.
DEU 32:23 I bring together to them bad things; and by my arrows I will finish with them -
DEU 32:24 melting them away in hunger, and being food of fowls, and affected incurable. The teeth of wild beasts I will send as a successor to them - with rage dragging them upon the ground.
DEU 32:25 From outside the sword shall make them childless, and from out of the inner chambers fear - the young man with the virgin; the one nursing being placed with the old man.
DEU 32:26 I said, I will disperse them, and I will cause their memorial to cease from among men.
DEU 32:27 If not on account of the anger of the enemies, that in no way should they live a long time, and that in no way their opponents join in making an attack - lest they should say, Our high hand, and not the LORD did all these things.
DEU 32:28 For it is a nation destroying counsel, and there is not higher knowledge in them.
DEU 32:29 They did not think to perceive. Let them appreciate in the coming time.
DEU 32:30 How shall one pursue thousands, and two rout ten thousands, unless God rendered them up, and the LORD delivered them up?
DEU 32:31 For their gods are not as our God - but our enemies are unthinking.
DEU 32:32 For of the grapevine of Sodom is their grapevine, and their small vine branch is of Gomorrah; their grape is the grape of bile - their cluster is bitterness to them.
DEU 32:33 The rage of dragons is their wine, even the incurable rage of asps.
DEU 32:34 Behold, are not these things brought together by me, and to set seal among my treasures?
DEU 32:35 In the day of punishment I shall recompense - in a time whenever their foot should trip; for the day of their destruction is near, and at hand prepared for you.
DEU 32:36 For the LORD judges his people, and over his menservants he shall be comforted. For he beheld their being disabled, and failing in the hostile invasion, and were weakened.
DEU 32:37 And the LORD said, Where are their gods upon whom they yielded upon them?
DEU 32:38 Of whom the fat of their sacrifices you ate, and drank the wine of their libations? Let them rise up and help you, and be your shelterer!
DEU 32:39 Behold, behold that I am, and there is not a God besides me! I shall kill, and I shall make to live. I shall strike, and I will heal. And there is not one who shall rescue from out of my hands.
DEU 32:40 For I shall lift my hand into the heaven, and I shall swear by an oath by my right hand. And I will say, I live into the eon.
DEU 32:41 For I will sharpen my sword as lightning, and my hand will hold to equity. And I will recompense punishment against the enemies; and against the ones detesting me I will recompense.
DEU 32:42 I shall intoxicate my arrows of blood, and my sword shall eat meats from the blood of the slain, and from the captivity of the heads of the rulers of the enemies.
DEU 32:43 Be glad, O heavens, together with him! And do obeisance to him, all angels of God! Be glad, O nations, with his people! And grow in strength in him all, O sons of God! For the blood of his sons he shall avenge, and he shall avenge and recompense punishment to the enemies. And to the ones detesting him he will recompense, and the LORD shall clear out the land for his people.
DEU 32:44 And Moses wrote this ode in that day. And he taught it to the sons of Israel. And Moses approached and spoke all the words of this law into the ears of the people - he and Joshua the son of Nun.
DEU 32:45 And Moses completed speaking these words to all Israel.
DEU 32:46 And he said to them, You take heed in your heart over all these words which I testify to you today, which you shall charge to your sons to guard, and to do all the words of this law!
DEU 32:47 For this is not an empty word for you, for this is your life. And because of this word you shall prolong your days upon the land into which you pass over the Jordan there to inherit it.
DEU 32:48 And the LORD spoke to Moses in this day, saying,
DEU 32:49 Ascend into the mountain Abarim, this mountain Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, against the face of Jericho! And behold the land of Canaan, which I give to the sons of Israel for a possession.
DEU 32:50 And come to an end in the mountain into which you ascend there! And be added to your people in which manner Aaron your brother died in Hor the mountain, and was added to his people!
DEU 32:51 For you resisted persuasion to my word among the sons of Israel at the water of dispute, Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; for you did not sanctify me among the sons of Israel.
DEU 32:52 For you shall see the land before you, and you shall not enter there into the land which I give to the sons of Israel.
DEU 33:1 This is the blessing which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his decease.
DEU 33:2 And he said, The LORD is come from out of Sinai, and he appeared upon Seir to us. And he hastened from out of mount Paran with myriads of Kadesh - at his right were angels with him.
DEU 33:3 And he spared his people, and all the ones being sanctified by your hands; these are under you; and he received of his words
DEU 33:4 the law which Moses gave charge to us, an inheritance of the congregation of Jacob.
DEU 33:5 And he will be a ruler with the one being loved being brought together with rulers of peoples among tribes of Israel.
DEU 33:6 Let Reuben live, and not die! And let Simeon be many in number!
DEU 33:7 And to this Judah. Listen, O LORD, of the voice of Judah! and unto his people, may they enter in. His hands shall litigate for him, and you will be a helper from his enemies.
DEU 33:8 And to Levi he said, Give to Levi his manifestations and his truth! To the sacred man, whom they tested him in Trial. They reviled him at Water of Dispute.
DEU 33:9 The one saying to his father and to his mother, I have not seen you; and his brothers he did not recognize, and his sons he did not know. He guarded your oracles, and he observed your covenant.
DEU 33:10 They shall manifest your ordinances to Jacob, and your law to Israel. They shall place incense in the time of your anger always upon your altar.
DEU 33:11 Bless, O LORD his strength; and the works of his hands receive! Break the loin of his enemies having risen up against him! And the ones detesting him let not rise up!
DEU 33:12 And to Benjamin he said, One being loved by the LORD. He shall encamp being yielded, and God shadows over him all the days; and he rested between his shoulders.
DEU 33:13 And to Joseph he said, His land is of the blessing of the LORD, of seasons of heaven, and of dew, and of the deeps of springs below,
DEU 33:14 and according to the season of the offsprings of the circuits of the sun, and of the returns of the months;
DEU 33:15 from the top of ancient mountains, and from the top of everlasting hills,
DEU 33:16 and according to the fullness of the land in season, and the accepted things being seen in the bush - may they come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top being glorified among brothers.
DEU 33:17 As a first-born bull is his beauty - horns of a unicorn are his horns. With them he shall gore nations together, even from the uttermost part of the earth. These are the myriads of Ephraim, and these are the thousands of Manasseh.
DEU 33:18 And to Zebulun he said, Be glad, O Zebulun, in your departure; and Issachar in your tents!
DEU 33:19 They shall utterly destroy nations, and you shall call upon there, and you shall sacrifice a sacrifice of righteousness; for the riches of the sea shall nurse you, and market-places dwelling on the coast.
DEU 33:20 And to Gad he said, One being blessed, widening Gad. As a lion he rested, having broken the arm, and the ruler.
DEU 33:21 And he beheld his first-fruit, for there the land was portioned by rulers being brought together, heads of peoples - the LORD did righteousness, and his equity was with Israel.
DEU 33:22 And to Dan he said, Dan, a lion cub - and he shall rush out from out of Bashan.
DEU 33:23 And to Naphtali he said, Naphtali, a fullness of acceptable things; and let him be filled with blessing from the LORD! You shall inherit the west and the south.
DEU 33:24 And to Asher he said, Asher is one being blessed of children; and he will be acceptable to his brothers; he shall dip his foot in olive oil;
DEU 33:25 iron and brass will be his sandal; and as your days so your strength.
DEU 33:26 There is not any as the God of the one being loved. The one mounting upon the heaven is your helper, even the majestic one of the firmament.
DEU 33:27 And the sovereignty of God shall shelter you, and that under the strength of everlasting arms. And he shall cast out from your face the enemy, saying, May you perish.
DEU 33:28 And Israel shall encamp alone complying; fountain of Jacob, with grain and wine; and the heaven covered with clouds in dew on him.
DEU 33:29 Blessed are you, O Israel. Who is likened to you, a people being delivered by the LORD? Your helper is the shield, and the sword of your boasting. And your enemies shall lie to you, and you shall mount upon their neck.
DEU 34:1 And Moses ascended from the wilderness of Moab unto mount Nebo, upon the top of Pisgah, which is upon the face of Jericho. And the LORD showed to him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan,
DEU 34:2 and all the land of Naphtali, and all the land of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, unto the latter sea;
DEU 34:3 and the wilderness, and the places round about Jericho, City of Palms, unto Zoar.
DEU 34:4 And the LORD said to Moses, This is the land which I swore by an oath to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, saying, To your seed I shall give it. And I showed it to your eyes, but there you shall not enter.
DEU 34:5 And Moses came to an end there, the servant of the LORD, in the land of Moab, by the word of the LORD.
DEU 34:6 And they entombed him in the land of Moab near the house of Peor. And not has any one known his burial place until this day.
DEU 34:7 And Moses was a hundred and twenty years old at his coming to an end. His eyes were not darkened, nor were his lips corrupted.
DEU 34:8 And the sons of Israel wept over Moses in the wilderness of Moab, at the Jordan, by Jericho for thirty days. And they completed the days of the mourning of weeping for Moses.
DEU 34:9 And Joshua son of Nun was filled of spirit of understanding; for Moses placed his hands upon him. And the sons of Israel hearkened to him, and they did in so far as the LORD gave charge to Moses.
DEU 34:10 And there rose up not any longer a prophet in Israel as Moses, whom the LORD knew him face to face,
DEU 34:11 in all the signs and miracles, which the LORD sent him to do them in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to his attendants, and to all his land;
DEU 34:12 and the great wonders - and all by the fortified hand which Moses executed before all Israel.
JOS 1:1 And it came to pass after the decease of Moses the servant of the LORD, that the LORD spoke to Joshua son of Nun, the aid of Moses, saying,
JOS 1:2 Moses, my attendant has come to an end. Now then, rising up, pass over the Jordan, you, and all this people, into the land which I give to them!
JOS 1:3 Every place upon which ever you should mount the track of your feet, I will give it to you, in which manner I spoke to Moses.
JOS 1:4 From the wilderness, and the Antilebanon, unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great sea from the descent of the sun, will be your boundaries.
JOS 1:5 A man shall not withstand before you all the days of your life. And as I was with Moses, so I will be also with you. And I will not abandon you, nor will I neglect you.
JOS 1:6 Be strong and manly! For you shall divide up to this people the land, which I swore by an oath to your fathers to give to them.
JOS 1:7 Be strong then and manly, to guard and to do in so far as I gave charge to you by Moses my servant! And do not turn aside from them to the right or to the left, that you should perceive in all what ever you should act on!
JOS 1:8 And this book of the law shall not leave from your mouth; and you shall meditate in it day and night, that you should perceive to do all the things written in it. Then you shall prosper your ways, and then you shall perceive.
JOS 1:9 Behold, I give charge to you - be strong and be manly! You should not be timid, nor should you be terrified, for the LORD your God is with you in every place where ever you should go.
JOS 1:10 And Joshua gave charge to the scribes of the people, saying,
JOS 1:11 Enter in the midst of the camp of the people, and give charge to the people! saying, Prepare provisions! For yet in three days even you pass over this Jordan, entering to take control of the land which the LORD God of your fathers gives to you.
JOS 1:12 And to Reuben, and to Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, Joshua said,
JOS 1:13 Remember the word of the LORD which Moses the servant of the LORD gave charge to you! saying, The LORD your God rested you, and gave to you this land.
JOS 1:14 Your wives, and your children, and your cattle - let them dwell in the land which Moses gave to you on the other side of the Jordan! And you shall pass over well-equipped prior to your brothers, every one being strong, and you shall fight along with them;
JOS 1:15 until whenever the LORD your God should rest your brothers, as also you. And so they shall be heir also to this land which the LORD your God gives to them. Then you shall go forth each unto his own inheritance, which Moses gave to you on the other side of the Jordan from the east sun.
JOS 1:16 And answering to Joshua, they said, All as much as you should give charge to us we will do, and into every place where ever you should send us, we will go.
JOS 1:17 According to all as much as we hearkened to Moses, we will hearken to you. Furthermore let the LORD our God be with you, in which manner he was with Moses!
JOS 1:18 And the man who ever should resist you, and who ever should not hearken to your words, in so far as you should give charge to him, let him die! But be strong and be manly!
JOS 2:1 And Joshua son of Nun sent from out of Shittin two men to spy, saying, Ascend and behold the land and Jericho! And going, they entered into a house of a woman harlot, whose name was Rahab, and rested up there.
JOS 2:2 And it was reported to the king of Jericho, saying, Men have entered here of the sons of Israel to spy out the land.
JOS 2:3 And the king of Jericho sent, and said to Rahab, saying, Lead out the men entering into your house in the night! for they have come to spy out the land.
JOS 2:4 And the woman taking the two men hid them. And she said to them, saying, The men entered to me, and I do not know from where they were.
JOS 2:5 But as the gate was locked in the darkness, and the men went forth, I have not knowledge of where they went. You pursue after them, and you shall overtake them!
JOS 2:6 But she brought them upon the roof, and hid them in the stalk of flax having been piled by her upon the roof.
JOS 2:7 And the men pursued after them on the way unto the Jordan near the ford - and the gate was locked.
JOS 2:8 And it came to pass as the ones pursuing after them went forth, and before their going to sleep, that she ascended upon the roof to them.
JOS 2:9 And she said to them, I know that the LORD gave the land to you, for the fear of you has fallen upon us, and all the ones dwelling the land are struck with awe of you.
JOS 2:10 For we have heard that the LORD God totally dried up the red sea before your face, when you went forth from out of Egypt, and as much as you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, to Sihon and to Og, of which you utterly destroyed them.
JOS 2:11 And having heard, we were amazed in our heart, and there was not yet a spirit established in any one because of your presence; for the LORD your God is the God in heaven upward, and upon the earth below.
JOS 2:12 And now, swear by an oath to me by the LORD God! for I performed an act of mercy to you, and you shall also perform yourself an act of mercy in the house of my father, and you shall give to me a true sign.
JOS 2:13 Take alive the house of my father, and my mother, and my brothers, and my sisters, and all of my house, and all as much as is theirs! And you shall rescue our life from death.
JOS 2:14 And the men said to her, Our life for yours, even unto death. And she said, Whenever the LORD should deliver up the city to you, you shall perform for me an act of mercy and truth.
JOS 2:15 And she let them down through the window, for her house was in the wall, and in the wall she dwelt.
JOS 2:16 And she said to them, Go forth into the mountainous area, lest there should meet up with you the ones pursuing! And you shall be hidden there three days until whenever the ones pursuing after you should return; and after this you shall go forth into your way.
JOS 2:17 And the men said to her, We are innocent in this your oath.
JOS 2:18 Behold, as we enter into a part of the city, then you shall place a sign - you shall suspend this scarlet string in the window through which you let us down through it. And your father, and your mother, and your brothers, and all the house of your father, you shall bring together to yourself into your house.
JOS 2:19 And it will be, any which ever should come forth by the door of your house unto outside, shall be liable to himself, and we will be innocent in this your oath. And as many as should be with you in your house, we will be liable if a hand should have touched him.
JOS 2:20 But if anyone should wrong us, and should uncover these our words, we will be innocent in this your oath, which you bound us by.
JOS 2:21 And she said to them, According to your word, thus let it be! And she sent them out, and they went. And she tied the scarlet sign in the window.
JOS 2:22 And they went, and they came unto the mountainous area, and stayed there three days, until the ones following returned. And the ones pursuing sought after them in all the ways, and did not find.
JOS 2:23 And the two young men returned, and went down from out of the mountain, and passed over, and came to Joshua son of Nun. And they described to him all the things coming to pass to them.
JOS 2:24 And they said to Joshua that, The LORD has delivered all the land in our hand, and all dwelling in that land are struck with awe at us.
JOS 3:1 And Joshua rose early in the morning. And they departed from Shittin, and they came unto the Jordan, he and all the sons of Israel. And they rested up there before passing over.
JOS 3:2 And it came to pass after three days, that the scribes went through the camp.
JOS 3:3 And they gave charge to the people, saying, Whenever you should behold the ark of the covenant of the LORD our God, and the priests, and the Levites lifting it, that you shall depart from your place, and go after it!
JOS 3:4 But let there be a far space between you and that ark, as much as two thousand cubits! You shall stand - you should not draw near it, that you should know the way which you go by it. For you have not gone the way either yesterday or the third day before.
JOS 3:5 And Joshua said to the people, Be sanctified by the morrow! For tomorrow the LORD shall do wonders among you.
JOS 3:6 And Joshua said to the priests, saying, Lift the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and go before in front of the people! And the priests lifted the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and went in front of the people.
JOS 3:7 And the LORD said to Joshua, On this day I begin to raise you up high in front of all the sons of Israel, that they should know in so far as I was with Moses, so shall I also be with you.
JOS 3:8 And now give charge to the priests lifting the ark of the covenant! saying, As soon as you should enter upon a part of the water of the Jordan, then in the Jordan you shall stand.
JOS 3:9 And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, Lead forward here and hearken to the word of the LORD your God!
JOS 3:10 And Joshua said, In this you shall know that God is living among you, and by annihilating he will annihilate from our face the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Perizzite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, and the Jebusite.
JOS 3:11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the LORD of all the earth passes over the Jordan before you.
JOS 3:12 And now handpick to yourselves twelve men from the sons of Israel, one from each tribe!
JOS 3:13 And it will be as whenever the feet of the priests shall rest, (of the ones lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD of all the earth,) in the water of the Jordan, the water of the Jordan shall fail, and the water going down shall stand from above as a heap.
JOS 3:14 And it happened as the people departed from out of their tents, to pass over the Jordan, that the priests lifted the ark of the covenant of the LORD in front of the people.
JOS 3:15 And as the priests entered lifting the ark of the covenant unto the Jordan, that the feet of the priests lifting the ark were dipped into a part of the water of the Jordan, (and the Jordan was filled up of its entire bank as in days of harvest,)
JOS 3:16 and the waters stood going down from above - it stood as a bank of water in abstaining far off, very vehemently unto Adam the city, unto the part of Kirjath Jearim. And the part going down went down into the sea of the wilderness, the sea of salts, unto into the end were it ceased. And the people stood before Jericho.
JOS 3:17 And the priests stood, (the ones lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD upon dry land in the midst of the Jordan,) ready. And all the sons of Israel passed over through dry land, until of which all the people completed passing over the Jordan.
JOS 4:1 And when all the people completed passing over the Jordan, that the LORD spoke to Joshua, saying,
JOS 4:2 Taking twelve men from the people, one man from each tribe,
JOS 4:3 give orders to them! saying, Take up to yourselves, from here, from out of the midst of the Jordan, from the station of the feet of the priests, twelve prepared stones! And these, in carrying them across together with you, put them in your military encampment, where ever you should camp there the night!
JOS 4:4 And Joshua calling by name twelve men of the honorable ones from the sons of Israel, one man from each tribe,
JOS 4:5 Joshua said to them, Lead forward before the presence of the LORD your God into the midst of the Jordan! And by taking up, lift away from there each one stone upon his shoulders, according to the number of the tribes of Israel!
JOS 4:6 That these should exist to you for a sign, being situated always that whenever your son should ask you tomorrow, saying, What are these stones to you?
JOS 4:7 And you shall make manifest to your son, saying that, The Jordan river ceased from in front of the ark of the covenant of the LORD of all the earth, as it passed over the Jordan - even the water of the Jordan ceased. And these stones shall be to you a memorial to the sons of Israel unto the eon.
JOS 4:8 And the sons of Israel did thus, in so far as the LORD gave charge to Joshua. And taking twelve stones from out of the midst of the Jordan, just as the LORD gave orders to Joshua, in the completion of the fording of the sons of Israel, that they carried them across together themselves into the camp, and put them aside there.
JOS 4:9 And Joshua set also another twelve stones in the Jordan itself, in the place being under the feet of the priests lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD. And they are there until today's day.
JOS 4:10 And the priests stood, the ones lifting the ark of the covenant, in the midst the Jordan, until of which he completed all the words which the LORD gave charge to Joshua to announce to the people, according to all as much as Moses gave charge to Joshua. And the people hastened, and passed over.
JOS 4:11 And it came to pass as all the people completed to pass over, that the ark of the covenant of the LORD passed over, and the priests in front of them.
JOS 4:12 And there passed over the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, being equipped in front of the sons of Israel, just as Moses gave charge to them.
JOS 4:13 Forty thousand well-equipped for battle passed over before the LORD for war against Jericho the city.
JOS 4:14 In that day the LORD increased Joshua before all of Israel, and they feared him, as they feared Moses, as much time as he lived.
JOS 4:15 And the LORD spoke to Joshua, saying,
JOS 4:16 Give charge to the priests lifting the ark of the covenant of the testimony, to go up out of the Jordan!
JOS 4:17 And Joshua gave charge to the priests, saying, Go up out of the Jordan!
JOS 4:18 And it came to pass as the priests went up out, (the ones lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD,) from the midst of the Jordan, that the priests put the feet upon the dry land, and the water of the Jordan advanced according to its place, and went as also yesterday and the third day before, through all its bank.
JOS 4:19 And the people ascended from out of the Jordan on the tenth of the first month. And the sons of Israel bivouacked in Gilgal - according to the part towards the sun rising by Jericho.
JOS 4:20 And these twelve stones, which he took from out of the Jordan, Joshua set in Gilgal.
JOS 4:21 And he spoke to the sons of Israel, saying, Whenever your sons ask you tomorrow, saying, What are these stones?
JOS 4:22 You announce to your sons! saying that, Israel passed over this Jordan upon dry ground.
JOS 4:23 The LORD our God caused the water of the Jordan to dry up from in front of them, until of which time they passed over, just as the LORD our God did to the red sea, which the LORD God caused to dry up in front of us until we went by.
JOS 4:24 So that all the nations of the earth might know that the power of the LORD is strong, and that you should worship the LORD our God at all time.
JOS 5:1 And it came to pass as all the kings of the Amorites heard, (the ones who were on the other side of the Jordan by the sea, and all the kings of Phoenicia by the sea) that the LORD God caused the Jordan river to dry up from before the sons of Israel in their passing over, that their thoughts melted away, and they were struck with terror, and there was not among them any one with intellect because of the presence of the sons of Israel.
JOS 5:2 And about this time the LORD said to Joshua, Make for yourself flint rock knives, and sitting down circumcise the sons of Israel a second time!
JOS 5:3 And Joshua made for himself flint rock knives, and circumcised the sons of Israel upon the place being called Hill of Foreskins.
JOS 5:4 And this is the account for which Joshua circumcised all the people - the ones coming forth from Egypt, the male, all men of war, even the ones that died in the wilderness in the way of their coming forth from the land of Egypt,
JOS 5:5 that all the people coming forth were circumcised. And all the people being born in the wilderness, in the way of their coming forth from the land of Egypt were not circumcised. For forty years Israel turned in the wilderness.
JOS 5:6 Therefore most of them were uncircumcised of the ones for combat coming forth from out of the land of Egypt, the ones resisting the commandments of the LORD God; and the ones whom the LORD separated to them, for them to not behold the land which the LORD swore by an oath to our fathers to give to us, a land flowing milk and honey,
JOS 5:7 their sons he firmed instead of these, whom Joshua circumcised. For they were uncircumcised on account of them being born along the way of uncircumcised ones.
JOS 5:8 And being circumcised, all the nation had rest at that time, sitting down in the camp until they were healed.
JOS 5:9 And the LORD said to Joshua, In today's day I removed the scorn of Egypt from you. And he called the name of that place Gilgal - unto this day.
JOS 5:10 And the sons of Israel camped in Gilgal, and observed the passover on the fourteenth day of the month, at evening, at the descent of Jericho in the plain.
JOS 5:11 And they ate from the grain of the land on the next day of the passover - unleavened breads and new corn.
JOS 5:12 On this day the manna failed, on the next day after their eating from the grain of the land; and no longer manna existed to the sons of Israel; but they gathered fruit of the place of the Phoenicians in that year.
JOS 5:13 And it came to pass as Joshua was in Jericho, and looking up with his eyes, he beheld a man standing before him, and his broadsword was unsheathed in his hand. And coming forward, Joshua said to him, Are you ours or of our opponents?
JOS 5:14 And he said to him that, I am the commander-in-chief of the force of the LORD - now I have come. And Joshua fell upon his face upon the ground, and did obeisance, and said to him, My master, what do you assign to your servant?
JOS 5:15 And the commander-in-chief of the LORD says to Joshua, Untie your sandal from your feet! for the place upon which you stand upon it is holy. And Joshua did thus.
JOS 6:1 And Jericho was closed up, and fortified from before the sons of Israel. And no one went forth from out of it, and neither entered.
JOS 6:2 And the LORD said to Joshua, Behold, I deliver up to you Jericho to you under your hand, and its king in it, and the mighty ones in strength.
JOS 6:3 And let all men of war circle the city round about the city! Once - thus they shall do for six days.
JOS 6:4 And seven priests shall take seven horns of the ram before the ark. And on the seventh day circle the city seven times, and the priests shall trump the horns!
JOS 6:5 And it will be as whenever you should trump the trumpet of the ram, in your hearing the sound of the horn, let all the people shout aloud! And with their shouting aloud the walls of the city shall fall by themselves underneath them, and all the people shall enter, each advancing in front into the city.
JOS 6:6 And Joshua the son of Nun entered to the priests, and said to them, You take the ark of the covenant, and seven priests shall take seven horns of the ram, according to the front of the ark of the LORD!
JOS 6:7 And he said to them, saying, Exhort the people to go around and circle the city, and let the ones for combat come near arming themselves before the ark of the LORD!
JOS 6:8 And it came to pass as Joshua spoke to the people, that the seven priests having seven consecrated trumpets also went by likewise before the LORD - they passed and signified intensely. And the ark of the covenant of the LORD followed after them.
JOS 6:9 And the ones for combat came near in front. And the priests were trumpeting the horns, and the rest of the multitude all together, after the ark of the covenant of the LORD - ones going and trumpeting with the horns.
JOS 6:10 And to the people Joshua gave charge, saying, Do not yell nor let any one hear your voice! There shall not go through from your mouth a word until whenever he himself declares the day to yell out - and you shall yell out then.
JOS 6:11 And the ark of the covenant of God having gone around the city round about, immediately they went forth into the camp, and spent the night there.
JOS 6:12 And on the second day Joshua rose up in the morning, and the priests lifted the ark of the LORD.
JOS 6:13 And the seven priests bringing the seven consecrated trumpets before the ark the LORD went forth - and the priests were trumping the trumpets. And after these the ones for combat entered. And the remaining multitude all together were behind the ark of the covenant of the LORD, going and trumping with the horns.
JOS 6:14 And they encircled the city on the second day, once near to it. And they went forth again into the camp. So it was done for six days.
JOS 6:15 And it came to pass on the seventh day the expedition rose up at dawn, and they went around the city according to this practice seven times, only on that day they circled the city seven times.
JOS 6:16 And it came to pass in the seventh circuit the priests trumped with trumpets, and Joshua said to the sons of Israel, Cry out! For the LORD delivered up the city to you.
JOS 6:17 And the city will be an offering for consumption, it, and all as much as is in it, to the LORD of the forces. Except Rahab the harlot - protect her, and all as much as is of hers in the house, for she hid the messengers whom we sent!
JOS 6:18 But you guard from the offering for consumption, lest at any time pondering, you should take of the offering for consumption, and should make the camp of the sons of Israel an offering for consumption, and he should obliterate us!
JOS 6:19 And all silver, or gold, and all brass and iron, will be holy to the LORD - it shall be carried into the treasury of the LORD.
JOS 6:20 And the people shouted, and the priests trumped the trumpets. And as the people heard the sound of the trumpets, all the people shouted a great and strong shout. And the wall fell round about; and the people ascended into the city, each at his opposite, and overtook the city.
JOS 6:21 And they devoted it to consumption, and as much as was in the city, from man and unto woman, from young and unto old, and unto calf, and sheep, and beast of burden, by the mouth of the broadsword.
JOS 6:22 And to the two young men spying out the land, Joshua said, You enter into the house of the woman, the harlot, and lead her from there, and all as much as is with her, as you swore by an oath to her!
JOS 6:23 And the two young men entered, the ones spying out the city, into the house of the woman. And they led out Rahab the harlot, and her father, and her mother, and her brothers, and all as much as was to her, and her kin. And they placed her outside the camp of Israel.
JOS 6:24 And the city was burned by fire with all the things in it. Except the silver, and gold, and all brass and iron, they yielded up to be carried into the treasury.
JOS 6:25 And Rahab the harlot, and all the house of her father, and all the things of hers, Joshua took alive. And she dwelt in Israel until the day today, for she hid the ones spying, whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.
JOS 6:26 And Joshua bound them by an oath in that day, saying, Accursed is the man who before the LORD, who shall raise up or shall build that city Jericho. With his first-born he will lay the foundation for it, and with the least of his he shall set the gates of it.
JOS 6:27 And the LORD was with Joshua, and his name was in all the land.
JOS 7:1 And the sons of Israel trespassed a trespass, and pilfered from the offering for consumption. And Achan took, (son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah,) from the offering for consumption. And the anger of the LORD was enraged with the sons of Israel.
JOS 7:2 And Joshua sent men from Jericho unto Ai, which is by Beth-aven, according to the east of Beth-el. And he spoke to them, saying, In ascending, survey the land! And the men ascended and surveyed Ai.
JOS 7:3 And they returned to Joshua, and said to him, Do not let all the people ascend, but about two thousand or three thousand men - let them ascend! And let them capture the city! You should not lead there all the people, for they are few.
JOS 7:4 And ascended from the people there about three thousand men. And they fled from the face of the men of Ai.
JOS 7:5 And the men of Ai killed of them about thirty-six men - and they pursued them from the gate until they defeated them. And they struck them by the incline. And the heart of the people was terrified, and it became as water.
JOS 7:6 And Joshua tore his garments, and fell upon his face upon the earth before the ark of the LORD until evening, he and the elders of Israel. And they put dust upon their heads.
JOS 7:7 And Joshua said, I beseech, O Lord, O LORD, why in causing to pass over was your servant caused to pass over this people the Jordan - to deliver it to the Amorite to destroy us? And if we stayed and were settled by the Jordan, what is it to me, O LORD.
JOS 7:8 And what shall I say when Israel turned the back of the neck before its enemy?
JOS 7:9 And hearing, the Canaanite and all the ones dwelling the land shall surround us, and shall obliterate us from the land. And what will you do for your great name?
JOS 7:10 And the LORD said to Joshua, Rise up! Why do you do this - fall upon your face?
JOS 7:11 The people have sinned, and it violated my covenant which I ordained with it. For even they took from the offering for consumption - and stealing they lie, and they cast the items for themselves.
JOS 7:12 And the sons of Israel in no way will be able to stand in front of its enemies. They shall turn the back of the neck before their enemies, for they were become an offering for consumption. I will not add any longer to be with you, if you should not lift away the offering for consumption from among you of them.
JOS 7:13 In rising up, purify the people, and tell them to be sanctified for tomorrow! For thus says the LORD God of Israel, The offering devoted for consumption is among you, O Israel; you shall not be able to withstand before your enemies, until whenever the offering for consumption should be lifted away from you.
JOS 7:14 And you shall gather all in the morning according to your tribes. And it will be to the tribe which ever the LORD shows, that you shall lead forward according to peoples. And the people which ever the LORD shows, you shall lead forward according to house. And the house which ever the LORD shows, by man you shall lead forward.
JOS 7:15 And who ever should be pointed out in the offering for consumption, he shall be burnt by the fire, he, and all as much as is his - for he violated the covenant of the LORD, and that he committed a violation of the law in Israel.
JOS 7:16 And Joshua rose early in the morning, and led the people forward by its tribe. And the tribe of Judah was made manifest.
JOS 7:17 And the Zarhite people were made manifest. And he led forward the Zarhite people according to man, and Zabdi was made manifest.
JOS 7:18 And he led forward his house by man, and was made manifest Achan, son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zerah of the tribe of Judah.
JOS 7:19 And Joshua said to Achan, O my son, today give indeed glory to the LORD God of Israel, and make to him the acknowledgment, and announce to me what you did, and you should not hide it from me!
JOS 7:20 And Achan answered to Joshua, and said, Truly I sinned before the LORD God of Israel, so and so I have done.
JOS 7:21 I beheld in the spoils standing bare one goodly colored robe, and two hundred double-drachmas of silver, and one wedge of gold - fifty double-drachmas its scale weight. And I coveted them, and I took. And behold, these are hid in the ground in my tent, and the silver is hid underneath them.
JOS 7:22 And Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent in the camp; and these were being hid in his tent, and the silver underneath them.
JOS 7:23 And they brought them from the tent, and brought them to Joshua, and to all elders of Israel. And they put them before the LORD.
JOS 7:24 And Joshua took Achan son of Zerah, and the silver, and the robe, and the gold wedge, and his sons, and his daughters, and his calves, and his beasts of burden, and his sheep, and his tent, and all his possessions, and all Israel with him. And they led them into Emek Achor.
JOS 7:25 And Joshua said, Why did you annihilate us for the LORD to utterly destroy you even today? And all Israel stoned him with stones, and they burned them in fire - even they stoned them with stones.
JOS 7:26 And they set over him a heap of great stones until this day. And the LORD ceased the rage of anger. Therefore this is the name of it - Emek Achor, unto this day.
JOS 8:1 And the LORD said to Joshua, You should not fear, nor should you be timid. Take with you all the men making war, and rising up, ascend unto Ai! Behold, I give into your hands the king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land.
JOS 8:2 And you shall do to Ai and her king in which manner you did to Jericho and her king. And her spoils and her cattle you shall despoil for yourself. But place for yourself an ambush for the city to the rear of her.
JOS 8:3 And Joshua rose up, and all the people, the warriors, so as to ascend to Ai. And Joshua chose thirty thousand men, mighty in strength, and sent them by night.
JOS 8:4 And he gave charge to them, saying, See that you lie in wait the city - behind the city greatly! And you shall all be prepared.
JOS 8:5 And I, and all the ones with me, will lead forward to the city. And it will be as whenever the ones dwelling in Ai should come forth to meet us, just as also the day before, and we fled from their face,
JOS 8:6 that whenever they should come forth after us, we shall draw them away from the city. And when they will say, They flee from our face in which manner before; that we shall flee from them.
JOS 8:7 And you shall rise up from the ambush, and you shall go into the city, and shall obliterate the city. And the LORD our God shall give it into our hands.
JOS 8:8 And it will be when ever you should seize the city, burn it by fire! According to this matter you shall act. Behold, I have given charge to you.
JOS 8:9 And Joshua sent them, and they went to the ambush, and sat in place between Beth-el and between Ai, from the west of Ai. And Joshua lodged that night in the midst of the people.
JOS 8:10 And Joshua rising early in the morning, numbered the people. And they ascended, he and the elders of Israel, before the face of the people, against Ai.
JOS 8:11 And all the people, the warrior, the one with him, ascended. And going, they came right opposite the city from the east. And the ambushes of the city were from the west. And they encamped from north of Ai. And the valley was between it and Ai
JOS 8:12 And he took about five thousand men, and stationed them in ambush between Beth-el and Ai, west of Ai.
JOS 8:13 And he arranged all the people of the camp, which was from north to the city, and the ends of it west of the city. And Joshua went that night in the midst of the valley.
JOS 8:14 And it happened as the king of Ai beheld, that he hastened and rose early. And there went forth the men of the city to meet them straight on into the battle - he and all his people at the opportune time, in front of the wilderness. And he knew not that an ambush against him is behind the city.
JOS 8:15 And Joshua and all Israel beheld and withdrew from in front of them.
JOS 8:16 And Israel fled by the way of the wilderness. And all the people of Ai grew in strength to pursue after them - of the sons of Israel. And they departed from the city.
JOS 8:17 They did not leave behind any one in Ai and in Beth-el, who pursued not after Israel. And they left the city being open, and pursued after Israel.
JOS 8:18 And the LORD said to Joshua, Stretch out your hand with the javelin in your hand, against the city; for into your hands I gave it. And the ones in ambush shall rise up quickly from out of their place.
JOS 8:19 And Joshua stretched the javelin and his hand against the city. And the ones in ambush rose up quickly from out of their place. And they went forth when he stretched out the hand. And they entered into the city, and overtook it. And hastening they burned the city in fire.
JOS 8:20 And the inhabitants of Ai looking about unto the rear of them then viewed the smoke of the city ascending into the heaven; and no longer had they anywhere to flee here on this side or here on that side. And the people fleeing into the wilderness, turned upon the ones pursuing.
JOS 8:21 And Joshua and all Israel beheld that the ones in ambush took the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended into the heaven; and turning they struck the men of Ai.
JOS 8:22 And these came forth from the city to meet them. And they came in the midst of the camp, some of these here and some of these here. And they struck them until there was not one being left behind of them being delivered and escaping.
JOS 8:23 And the king of Ai was seized alive, and they led him to Joshua.
JOS 8:24 And it happened as the sons of Israel ceased killing all the ones in Ai, and in the plains, and in the mountain upon the descent of which they pursued them, that all fell by the mouth of the broadsword, by it unto completion. And Joshua returned to Ai, and struck it by the mouth of the broadsword.
JOS 8:25 And it came to pass all the ones falling in that day, from man and unto woman - twelve thousand, all the ones dwelling in Ai.
JOS 8:26 And Joshua returned not his hand which he stretched out by the javelin, until he devoted to consumption the whole of the ones dwelling Ai.
JOS 8:27 Except the cattle and the spoils in that city the sons of Israel despoiled for themselves, according to the order of the LORD, in which manner the LORD gave orders to Joshua.
JOS 8:28 And Joshua burned the city by fire, and he established it for an embankment into the eon - uninhabited until this day.
JOS 8:29 And the king of Ai he hung upon a twin tree. And he was upon the tree until the time of the evening. And at the setting of the sun, Joshua gave orders, and they lowered his body from the tree, and tossed him into the cesspool before the gate of the city, and set over him a large heap of stones, until this day.
JOS 8:30 Then Joshua built an altar to the LORD God of Israel on mount Ebal,
JOS 8:31 as Moses the attendant of the LORD gave charge to the sons of Israel, as it is written in the law of Moses, An altar entirely stone, upon which an iron tool was not put upon it. And he transported there whole burnt offerings to the LORD, and a sacrifice of deliverance offering.
JOS 8:32 And Joshua wrote upon the stones the second book of the law - the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the sons of Israel.
JOS 8:33 And all Israel, and their elders, and their magistrates, and their scribes, were coming near on this side and that side before the ark; and the priests and the Levites lifted the ark of the covenant of the LORD; and the foreigner and the native born were there; the halves of them neighboring mount Gerizim, and the halves neighboring mount Ebal, as Moses the attendant of the LORD gave charge at first to bless the people Israel.
JOS 8:34 And after these things Joshua read the whole sayings of this law - the blessings and the curses, according to all the things being written in the law of Moses.
JOS 8:35 There was not a word from all which Moses gave charge to Joshua, which Joshua did not read into the ears of all the assembly of Israel - to the men, and to the women, and to the servants, and to the foreigners going with Israel.
JOS 9:1 And as they all heard (the kings of the Amorites on the other side of the Jordan in the mountainous area, and the ones on the plain, and the ones in all the coast of the great sea, and the ones towards Antilebanon, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Gergashites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites;)
JOS 9:2 that they came together to the same place to wage war against Joshua and Israel all together.
JOS 9:3 And the ones dwelling in Gibeon heard all as much as Joshua did to Jericho and to Ai.
JOS 9:4 And they acted, even indeed themselves, with astuteness. And coming, they stood by and prepared. And taking old sackcloths upon their donkeys, and old leather bags of wine, even being broken down and all tied up mended.,
JOS 9:5 and the hollows in their shoes, and their sandals old and being mended on their feet, and their garments being old upon them, and the bread loaves of their provisions were dry and moldy and worm eaten,
JOS 9:6 that they came to Joshua into the camp of Israel in Gilgal. And they said to Joshua, and to all Israel, From out of a land far off we have come - and now ordain with us a covenant!
JOS 9:7 And the sons of Israel said to the Hivite, Look, you do not dwell together with me; so how should we ordain with you a covenant?
JOS 9:8 And they said to Joshua, We are your servants. And Joshua said to them, From what place are you, and from what place do you come?
JOS 9:9 And they said to him, your servants have come from out of a land far off exceedingly in the name of the LORD your God - for we have heard his name, and all as much as he did in Egypt;
JOS 9:10 and all as much as he did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were on the other side of the Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Og king of Bashan, who dwelt in Ashtaroth and in Edrain.
JOS 9:11 And our elders spoke to us, and all the ones dwelling in our land, saying, Take to yourselves provisions for the journey, and go to meet with them! And you shall say to them, We are your servants - and now ordain with us the covenant!
JOS 9:12 These are our bread loaves we took hot, being provided of them from our houses in the day in which we came forth to come to you. And now, behold, they are dry, and have become worm eaten.
JOS 9:13 And these are the leather bags of the wine which we filled new - and these are torn. And these are our garments made old from the exceedingly long journey.
JOS 9:14 And the rulers took their provisions, and the mouth of the LORD they did not ask.
JOS 9:15 And Joshua made peace with them, and ordained with them a covenant, and the rulers of the congregation swore by an oath to them.
JOS 9:16 And it came to pass after three days, after the ordaining with them a covenant, they heard that they are near them, and that they dwelt among them.
JOS 9:17 And the sons of Israel departed, and came forth into their cities the third day. And their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and cities of Jearim.
JOS 9:18 And the sons of Israel did not wage war with them, for all the rulers of the congregation swore by an oath to them by the LORD God of Israel. And all the congregation complained about the rulers.
JOS 9:19 And all the rulers said to all the congregation, We swore by an oath to them by the LORD God of Israel. And now, we shall not be able to touch them.
JOS 9:20 This we will do to them - to take them alive, and we will preserve them, and there will not be anger against us on account of the oath which we swore by an oath to them.
JOS 9:21 And the rulers said to them, They shall live, and they shall be woodcutters and water-carriers to all the congregation, just as the rulers said to them.
JOS 9:22 And Joshua called them together, and he spoke to them, saying, Why did you mislead me, saying, We are exceedingly far from you; but you are natives of the ones dwelling among us?
JOS 9:23 And now you are accursed, in no way shall there fail from one of you being a servant, nor woodcutter, nor a water-carrier to me, and to my God.
JOS 9:24 And they answered to Joshua, saying that, A message was announced to us, as much as the LORD your God ordered Moses his servant to give to you this land, and to utterly destroy us, and all the ones dwelling upon it, from in front of you. And we feared exceedingly for our lives from your presence, and we did this thing.
JOS 9:25 And now, behold, we are under your hands. As it pleases you and as it seems good to do to us, you do it!
JOS 9:26 And they did to them thus, and Joshua rescued them in that day from the hands of the sons of Israel, and they did not do away with them.
JOS 9:27 And Joshua established them in that day as woodcutters and water-carriers to all the congregation, and for the altar of God, until the day today, and for the place which ever he should choose.
JOS 10:1 And as Adoni-zedec king of Jerusalem heard that Joshua took Ai, and utterly destroyed it; in which manner he did to Jericho and her king, and thus they did also to Ai and her king; and that the ones dwelling in Gibeon deserted to Joshua and to Israel, and were in the midst of them;
JOS 10:2 that they feared among themselves exceedingly, for he knew that Gibeon was a great city, as also one of the mother-cities of the kings, for it was great over Ai, and all its men were strong.
JOS 10:3 And Adoni-zedec king of Jerusalem sent to Holam king of Hebron, and to Piram king of Jarmuth, and to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying,
JOS 10:4 Come, ascend to me, and help me, and we shall wage war against Gibeon! for it deserted to Joshua, and to the sons of Israel.
JOS 10:5 And they gathered and ascended, the five kings of the Amorites - the king of Jerusalem, and the king of Hebron, and the king of Jerimuth, and the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon, they and all their people. And they besieged Gibeon, and attempted to capture it.
JOS 10:6 And the ones dwelling in Gibeon sent to Joshua into the camp of Israel in Gilgal, saying, Do not loosen your hands from your servants! Ascend to us quickly and rescue us, and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites are gathering against us, the ones dwelling in the mountainous area!
JOS 10:7 And Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he and every warrior with him, all mighty in strength.
JOS 10:8 And the LORD said to Joshua, Do not fear them, for into your hands I have delivered them - there shall not stand even one of them before you!
JOS 10:9 And when Joshua came upon them suddenly, for the entire night he was gone from out of Gilgal,
JOS 10:10 that the LORD startled them from in front of Israel, and the LORD defeated them with a great defeat in Gibeon. And they pursued them by the way ascending to Beth-horon, and slew them unto Azekah, and unto Makkedah.
JOS 10:11 But in their fleeing from in front of the sons of Israel at the descent of Beth-horon, that the LORD cast upon them stones of hail from out of the heaven unto Azekah. And there were more dying by the stones of hail than which were killed by the sons of Israel by sword in the battle.
JOS 10:12 Then Joshua spoke to the LORD in the day God delivered up the Amorites under the hand of the sons of Israel. And Joshua said, Let the sun stand over Gibeon, and the moon over the ravine of Ajalon.
JOS 10:13 And the sun and the moon stood in position until God repulsed their enemies. Is this not written in the scroll of the upright? And the sun stood in the midst of the heaven, it did not go forth into descent for the completion of one day.
JOS 10:14 And there was not such a day nor former nor latter, so as for God to heed the voice of man, because the LORD joined in war with Israel.
JOS 10:15 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him to the camp in Gilgal.
JOS 10:16 And these five kings fled and hid in the cave in Makkedah.
JOS 10:17 And it was reported to Joshua, saying, The five kings have been found hiding in the cave in Makkedah.
JOS 10:18 And Joshua said, Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave, and place upon them men to guard them!
JOS 10:19 But you do not stand off pursuing after your enemies! But overtake their rear guard, and do not let them enter into their cities, for the LORD our God delivered them into our hands!
JOS 10:20 And it came to pass as Joshua rested, and the son of Israel, in beating them with an exceedingly great slaughter even unto completion, that the ones surviving were delivered from them, and entered into the fortified cities.
JOS 10:21 And all the people returned to Joshua in Makkedah in the camp in health - and not one of the sons of Israel growled with his tongue.
JOS 10:22 And Joshua said, Open the cave, and lead out to me these five kings from out of the cave!
JOS 10:23 And they did thus, and led to him these five kings from out of the cave - the king of Jerusalem, and the king of Hebron, and the king of Jarmuth, and the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
JOS 10:24 And when they led them to Joshua, then Joshua called together every man of Israel, saying to them, and the ones commencing the war going with him, saying to them, Go forth and place your feet upon their necks! And coming forward, they placed their feet upon their necks.
JOS 10:25 And Joshua said to them, You should not fear them nor be timid. Be manly and be strong, for thus the LORD shall do to all your enemies whom you make war against them!
JOS 10:26 And after this Joshua killed them, and put them to death, and hung them upon five trees. And they were hanging upon the trees until evening.
JOS 10:27 And it came to pass towards the descent of the sun, and Joshua gave charge, and they lowered them from the trees. And they tossed them into the cave into which they took refuge there. And they rolled great stones upon the cave, which remains until the day today.
JOS 10:28 And Joshua took Makkedah in that day, and slaughtered it by the mouth of the blade, and the king. And they utterly destroyed them, and every one breathing that was in it. And there was not left behind in it any one surviving. And they did to the king of Makkedah in which manner they did to the king of Jericho.
JOS 10:29 And Joshua went forth, and all Israel with him, from out of Makkedah, unto Libna, and they assaulted against Libna.
JOS 10:30 And the LORD delivered it also into the hand of Israel. And they took it, and its king. And they slaughtered it by the mouth of the blade, and every one breathing that was in it; there was not left behind in her not even one surviving and having escaped. And they did to its king in which manner they did to the king of Jericho.
JOS 10:31 And Joshua went forth, and all Israel with him, from out of Libna, unto Lachish, and besieged it, and assaulted it.
JOS 10:32 And the LORD delivered Lachish into the hands of Israel. And he took it on the second day, and he slaughtered it by the mouth of the blade, and utterly destroyed it in which manner he did to Libna.
JOS 10:33 Then Horam king of Gezer ascended to help Lachish. And Joshua struck him by the mouth of the blade, and his people, until there was not being left behind of them one being delivered and escaping.
JOS 10:34 And Joshua went forth, and all Israel with him, from Lachish unto Eglon; and he besieged it, and captured it.
JOS 10:35 And the LORD delivered it into the hand of Israel. And he took it in that day, and slaughtered it by the mouth of the blade, and every one breathing in it. In that day they slaughtered in which manner they did to Lachish.
JOS 10:36 And Joshua went forth, and all Israel with him, from Eglon unto Hebron; and they besieged it.
JOS 10:37 And they overtook it, and struck it by the mouth of the blade, and its king, and all its villages, and every one breathing, as many as was in it - there was not one surviving; in which manner they did to Eglon; even they utterly destroyed it and all breathing as was in it.
JOS 10:38 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir; and they besieged it.
JOS 10:39 And they took it, and its king, and all her towns; and they struck it by the mouth of the blade, and utterly destroyed it, and every one breathing in it; and they did not leave behind one surviving. In which manner they did to Hebron, so they did to Dabir, and to its king; just as he did to Libna and to its king.
JOS 10:40 And Joshua struck all the land of the mountainous area, and the Negev, and the plain, and Asedoth, and all its kings. They did not leave behind in it one being delivered. And every one breathing life they utterly destroyed in which manner the LORD God of Israel gave charge.
JOS 10:41 And Joshua killed them from Kadesh Barnea unto Gaza - all the land of Goshen unto Gibeon.
JOS 10:42 And all these kings and their land Joshua took at once, for the LORD God of Israel joined in war with Israel.
JOS 10:43 And Joshua returned to Gilgal.
JOS 11:1 And when Jabin king of Hazor heard, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to king Shimron, and to king Achshaph,
JOS 11:2 and to the kings of the places by the great Sidon, unto the mountainous area, and unto the wilderness before Chinneroth, and the plain, and unto Napedor,
JOS 11:3 and to the ones of the coast - the Canaanites from the east, and to the ones of the coast - the Amorites, and the Hittites, and Perizzites, and Jebusites in the mountain; and the Hivites under Hermon unto the land of Mizpeh.
JOS 11:4 And they came forth, they and their kings with them, a vast people, as the sand which is by the edge of the sea in multitude, and horses, and very many chariots.
JOS 11:5 And all these kings united, and came and camped together by the water of Merom, to wage war against Israel.
JOS 11:6 And the LORD said to Joshua, You should not fear from their face; for tomorrow at this hour I will deliver all of them - being putting to flight before the sons of Israel. Their horses you shall hamstring, and their chariots you shall incinerate by fire.
JOS 11:7 And Joshua came, and all the warrior people with him, against them at the water of Merom suddenly; and they fell against them in the mountainous area.
JOS 11:8 And the LORD delivered them under the hands of Israel. And beating them, they pursued them unto the great Sidon, and unto Misrephoth-maim, and unto the plains of Mizpeh and eastwards. And they slew them until the not being left behind of them one surviving.
JOS 11:9 And Joshua did to them in so far as the LORD gave charge to him - He hamstrung their horses, and he burned their chariots in fire.
JOS 11:10 And Joshua returned in that time, and overtook Hazor; and her king he killed by the broadsword. And Hazor was formerly ruling all these kingdoms.
JOS 11:11 And he killed everyone breathing in it by the mouth of the blade, and he utterly destroyed all, and there was not left behind in it one breathing - and Hazor they burned by fire.
JOS 11:12 And all the cities of these kingdoms, and all their kings, Joshua took. And he did away with them by the mouth of the blade. And he utterly destroyed them in which manner Moses the servant of the LORD ordered.
JOS 11:13 But all the cities being fortified by a mound - of them Israel did not burn, except Joshua burned Hazor only.
JOS 11:14 And all her spoils, and the cattle, the sons of Israel despoiled for themselves. And all of them they utterly destroyed by the mouth of the blade. And he destroyed them - they did not leave behind of them one breathing.
JOS 11:15 In which manner the LORD gave orders to Moses, to his servant, likewise Moses gave charge to Joshua, and thus Joshua did. He did not violate anything of all of which Moses gave orders to him.
JOS 11:16 And Joshua took all this land - the mountainous area, and the whole land of Negev, and all the land of Goshen, and the plain, and the land towards the west, and the mountain of Israel, and the low lands towards the mountain;
JOS 11:17 from mount Halak, and the ascent into Seir, and unto Baal-gad, and the plain of Lebanon under mount Hermon. And he took all their kings, and did away with them, and killed them.
JOS 11:18 And for many days Joshua made war against all these kings.
JOS 11:19 And there was not a city which he did not deliver over to the sons of Israel, except the Hivite dwelling in Gibeon - he took all by war.
JOS 11:20 For it was by the LORD to become strong of their heart to meet for war against Israel, that they should be utterly destroyed; so that no mercy should be given to them, but that they should be utterly destroyed in which manner the LORD told to Moses.
JOS 11:21 And Joshua came in that time, and utterly destroyed the Anakims from out of the mountainous area, from Hebron and from Debir, and from Anab, and from every mountain of Judah, and from every mountain of Israel with their cities - and Joshua utterly destroyed them.
JOS 11:22 He did not leave of the Anakims from the sons of Israel, but except for in Gaza, and in Gath, and in Ashdod, some were left.
JOS 11:23 And Joshua took all the land, as far as the LORD gave charge to Moses. And Joshua gave them by inheritance to Israel in their distribution according to their tribes. And the land rested from waging war.
JOS 12:1 And these are the kings of the land which the sons of Israel did away with, and inherited their land on the other side of the Jordan, of the east sun of the ravine of Arnon unto mount Hermon, and all the wilderness of the east -
JOS 12:2 Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, dominating from Aroer, which is by the river bank in the ravine of Arnon, according to the middle of the ravine, and the half of Gilead, unto Jabbok the rushing stream - the borders of the sons of Ammon;
JOS 12:3 and the wilderness unto the sea of Chinneroth according to the east, and unto the sea of the wilderness, the sea of salts from the east, by the way according to Beth-jeshimoth; and from Teman under Ashdoth Pisgah.
JOS 12:4 And the border of Og king of Bashan, which was left behind of the giants dwelling in Ashtaroth and in Edrei,
JOS 12:5 ruling from mount Hermon, and from Salcah, and all Bashan, unto the borders of the Geshurite, and Maachathite, and the half of Gilead, unto the borders of Sihon king of Heshbon.
JOS 12:6 Moses the servant of the LORD and the sons of Israel struck them. And Moses the servant of the LORD gave it by inheritance to Reuben, and Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh.
JOS 12:7 And these are the kings of the Amorites which Joshua did away with, and the sons of Israel on the other side of the Jordan by west of Baal-gad in the plain of Lebanon and unto mount Halak, ascending unto Seir. And Joshua gave it to the tribes of Israel as an inheritance according to their lot;
JOS 12:8 in the mountain, and in the plain, and in the wilderness, and in Ashdod, and in the wilderness, and Negev - the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite -
JOS 12:9 the king of Jericho, one; and the king of Ai, which is neighboring Beth-el, one;
JOS 12:10 the king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one;
JOS 12:11 the king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;
JOS 12:12 the king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;
JOS 12:13 the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;
JOS 12:14 the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;
JOS 12:15 the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;
JOS 12:16 the king of Makkedah, one; the king of Beth-el, one;
JOS 12:17 the king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;
JOS 12:18 the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one;
JOS 12:19 the king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;
JOS 12:20 the king of Meron, one; the king of Achshaph, one;
JOS 12:21 the king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one;
JOS 12:22 the king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam of Carmel, one;
JOS 12:23 the king of Dor, the one of Nephedor, one; the king of Goim of Gilgal, one;
JOS 12:24 the king of Tizrah, one - all these kings were thirty and one.
JOS 13:1 And Joshua was older being advanced of days; and the LORD said to Joshua, You are grown old, advanced of days, and much land is left exceedingly for inheritance.
JOS 13:2 And this is the land being left; all the borders of the Philistines, and all the Geshurite and the Canaanite,
JOS 13:3 from the uninhabited part by the face of Egypt, unto the borders of Ekron, from the left of the Canaanites, which is counted in addition to the five satrapies of the Philistines - to the Gazite, and to the Ashdodite and to the Ashkelonite, and to the Gittite, and to the Ekronite, and to the Avite;
JOS 13:4 from Teman, and all the land of Canaan from Gaza, and the Sidonians unto Aphek, unto the borders of the Amorites.
JOS 13:5 And all the land of Gabli of the Philistines, and all Lebanon from the east sun from Baal-gad under mount Hermon, unto the entrance of Hamath.
JOS 13:6 Every one dwelling the mountainous area from Lebanon unto Misrephoth-maim, and all the ones of Sidon - I will utterly destroy them from the face of the sons of Israel. But you distribute it to Israel by lot, in which manner I charged you!
JOS 13:7 And now portion this land by lot of inheritance to the nine tribes, and to the half tribe of Manasseh!
JOS 13:8 To the ones with him, to Reuben and to Gad - they received their inheritance which Moses gave to them; on the other side of the Jordan; according to the rising of the sun Moses the servant of the LORD granted to them,
JOS 13:9 from Aroer, which is upon the edge of the stream Arnon, and the city in the midst of the ravine, and all Misor from Medeba unto Dibon;
JOS 13:10 and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, unto the borders of the sons of Ammon;
JOS 13:11 and Gilead, and the borders of the Geshurites and the Maachathites, all mount Hermon, and all Bashan unto Salcah;
JOS 13:12 all the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei - this one was left from the remnant of giants; for Moses struck him and utterly destroyed him.
JOS 13:13 But the sons of Israel did not utterly destroy the Geshurite, and the Maachathite. And the king of the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwelt among the sons of Israel until this day.
JOS 13:14 Except to the tribe of Levi there was not given an inheritance - the LORD God of Israel, this is their inheritance, as the LORD said to them.
JOS 13:15 And Moses gave to the tribe of the sons of Reuben according to their peoples.
JOS 13:16 And their boundaries were from Aroer, which is by the face of the ravine Arnon, and the city in the ravine of Arnon, and all Misor and Medeba unto Heshbon,
JOS 13:17 and all their cities being in Misor, and Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and the house of Baal-meon,
JOS 13:18 and Jahaza, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,
JOS 13:19 and Kirjathaim, and Sibmah, and Zerath, and Sharah in mount Emak;
JOS 13:20 and Beth-peor, and Ashdoth Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth,
JOS 13:21 and all the cities of Misor, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses struck - he and the leaders of Midian, even Evi and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, rulers of Sihon dwelling in the land.
JOS 13:22 And Balaam son Beor the clairvoyant the sons of Israel killed by the broadsword in the routing of the enemy.
JOS 13:23 And the borders of the sons of Reuben were the Jordan boundary. This is the inheritance of the sons of Reuben according to their peoples, the cities, and their properties.
JOS 13:24 And Moses gave inheritance to the sons of Gad according to their peoples.
JOS 13:25 And their borders were Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half of the land of the sons of Ammon, unto Aroer which is against the face of Rabbah.
JOS 13:26 And from Heshbon unto Ramath by Mizpha, Betonim; and from Mahanaim unto the borders of Debir;
JOS 13:27 and Enemek, Beth-aram, and Beth-nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, and the remaining kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon - the Jordan shall define the bounds, unto part of the sea of Chinnereth on the other side of the Jordan from the east.
JOS 13:28 This is the inheritance of the sons of Gad according to their peoples, and according to their cities, and their properties.
JOS 13:29 And Moses gave to the half tribe of Manasseh - and it became to the halves of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh according to their peoples.
JOS 13:30 And their borders were from Mahanaim, and all the kingdom of Bashan, and all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in the land of Bashan - sixty cities;
JOS 13:31 even half of Gilead, and in Ashtaroth, and in Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan - these were to the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh, and to the half of the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh according to their peoples.
JOS 13:32 These are which Moses gave to inherit in the wilderness of Moab, on the other side of the Jordan, by Jericho, from the east.
JOS 13:33 And to the tribe of Levi Moses did not give an inheritance - the LORD God of Israel, he is their inheritance in which manner he said to them.
JOS 14:1 And these are the ones inheriting of the sons of Israel in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest allotted to them, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the rulers of families of the tribes of the sons of Israel.
JOS 14:2 According to lots they inherited, in which manner the LORD gave charge by the hand of Moses, to the nine tribes, and to the half tribe.
JOS 14:3 for Moses gave a lot to the two tribes and to the half tribe of the other side of the Jordan. And to the Levites a lot was not given among them.
JOS 14:4 For the sons of Joseph were two tribes - Manasseh and Ephraim. And a portion was not given to the Levites in the land, but only cities to dwell in, and their outskirts to their cattle and their herds.
JOS 14:5 In which manner the LORD gave charge to Moses, so the sons of Israel did, and they portioned the land.
JOS 14:6 And came forward sons of Judah to Joshua in Gilgal. And Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said to him, You know the word which the LORD spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and you in Kadesh Barnea.
JOS 14:7 For I was forty years old when Moses the servant of God sent me from out of Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land. And I answered him a word according to his mind.
JOS 14:8 But my brothers ascending with me changed over the mind of the people. But I proceeded to follow after the LORD my God.
JOS 14:9 And Moses swore by an oath in that day, saying that, The land upon which you mounted in it will be yours by lot, and to your children into the eon, for you proceeded to follow after the LORD my God.
JOS 14:10 And now, the LORD maintained me, in which manner he said, this fortieth and fifth year, from which the LORD spoke this word to Moses - and Israel went in the wilderness. And now, behold, I am today a son eighty and five years old.
JOS 14:11 Yet I am today of strength as when Moses sent me; likewise I am strong now to go forth and to enter for war.
JOS 14:12 And now I ask you this mountain, as the LORD said in that day; for you heard this word in that day, saying, And now the Anakims are there, in cities great and fortified. If then the LORD should be with me, I shall utterly destroy them in which manner the LORD spoke to me.
JOS 14:13 And Joshua blessed him, and gave Hebron to Caleb son of Jephunneh by lot.
JOS 14:14 On account of this Hebron came to Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenezite by lot until today's day, because he followed after the order of the LORD God of Israel.
JOS 14:15 And the name of Hebron formerly was City Arba, this is the mother-city of the Anakims. Then the land abated of war.
JOS 15:1 And the boundaries of the tribe of Judah were according to their peoples - from the borders of Edom from the wilderness of Zin to the south unto Kadesh.
JOS 15:2 And their borders were from the south were unto a part of the salty sea, from the ridge bearing to the south.
JOS 15:3 And it travels over before the ascent leading to Acrabbim, and goes around Zin, and ascends from the south upon Kadesh Barnea, and goes forth to Hezron, and ascends into Adar, and it marches around by the descent of Kadesh.
JOS 15:4 And it goes forth upon Azmon, and it passes out unto the rushing stream of Egypt; and his outer reaches will be of the borders at the sea - this is their borders from the south.
JOS 15:5 And the borders from the east are all the salty sea, unto part of the Jordan. And their borders by the north are from the ridge of the sea, and from the part of the Jordan.
JOS 15:6 The borders mount upon Beth-hoglah, and go near from the north unto Beth-arabah; and it ascends unto the borders at the stone of Bohan of the son of Reuben.
JOS 15:7 And the borders ascend unto Debir of the ravine of Achor, and according to the north it goes down to Gilgal, which is before the entrance approach of Adummim, which is towards the south in the ravine. And the border passes out unto the water of the spring of the sun. And his outer reaches will be the spring of Rogel.
JOS 15:8 And the borders ascend unto the ravine of the son of Hinnom at the back of Jebus from the south - this is Jerusalem. And the borders pass out unto the top of the mountain which is by the face of the ravine of Hinnom towards the west, which is by part of the land of Rephaim towards the north.
JOS 15:9 And the border passes out through from the top of the mountain at the spring of the water of Nephtoah, and passes out unto the towns of mount Ephron; and the border leads unto Baalah - this is the city Jearim.
JOS 15:10 And the border went around from Baalah unto west, and shall go by unto mount Seir, and shall go by unto the back of the city Jearim from the north - this is Chesalon. And it shall go down to city of Sun, and shall go by to the south.
JOS 15:11 And the border shall pass out at the back of Ekron towards the north. And the borders shall pass out into Shicron, and shall go by the mount of the land of Baalah, and pass out at Jebneel. And the outer reaches of the borders will be at the sea. And their borders from the west - the great sea shall define the bounds.
JOS 15:12 These are the borders of the sons of Judah round about according to their peoples.
JOS 15:13 And to Caleb son of Jephunneh he gave a portion in the midst of the sons of Judah according to the order of God. And Joshua gave to him the city Arba, the mother-city of Anak - this is Hebron.
JOS 15:14 And Caleb son of Jephunneh utterly destroyed from there the three sons of Anak - Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, offspring of the Anak.
JOS 15:15 And Caleb ascended from there upon the ones dwelling in Debir. And the name Debir was formerly City of Letters.
JOS 15:16 And Caleb said, Who ever should take the City of Letters, and should dominate it, I will give to him Achsah my daughter for a wife.
JOS 15:17 And Othniel son of Kenaz the younger brother of Caleb took it. And he gave to him Achsah his daughter to him for a wife.
JOS 15:18 And it came to pass in her going forth, that she advised him, saying, I will ask my father for a field. And she yelled from the donkey. And Caleb said, What is it with you?
JOS 15:19 And she said to him, Give a blessing to me; for you have appointed me for the land of the Negev. Give to me Golath-maim. And Caleb gave her Golath-maim the upper part, and Golath the part below.
JOS 15:20 This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah according to their peoples.
JOS 15:21 And their cities were foremost cities of the tribe of the sons of Judah, upon the borders of Edom, by the wilderness - Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,
JOS 15:22 and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,
JOS 15:23 and Kadesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,
JOS 15:24 Ziph, and Telem Bealoth,
JOS 15:25 Hazor the new, and the cities of Hezron - this is Hazor,
JOS 15:26 Aman, and Shema, and Moladah,
JOS 15:27 and Hazar-shual, and Hazar-gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-palet.
JOS 15:28 and Beer-sheba, and Bizjothjah
JOS 15:29 and Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,
JOS 15:30 and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,
JOS 15:31 and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,
JOS 15:32 and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon - all the twenty-nine cities and their towns.
JOS 15:33 In the plain - Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,
JOS 15:34 and Zanoah, and En-gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,
JOS 15:35 and Jarmuth, and Adullam, and Socoh, and Azekah,
JOS 15:36 and Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, its properties - fourteen cities and their towns;
JOS 15:37 Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad,
JOS 15:38 and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,
JOS 15:39 and Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,
JOS 15:40 and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,
JOS 15:41 and Gederoth, and Beth-dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah - sixteen cities and their towns;
JOS 15:42 Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,
JOS 15:43 and Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,
JOS 15:44 and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah - nine cities and their towns;
JOS 15:45 Ekron, and her towns, and her properties.
JOS 15:46 From Ekron and unto the sea, Jemnath and all as much as are neighboring Ashdod, and their towns.
JOS 15:47 Ashdod and her towns, and her properties - Gaza and her towns, and her properties, unto the rushing stream of Egypt - and the great sea separates.
JOS 15:48 And in the mountainous area - Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,
JOS 15:49 and Dannah, and the city of Letters - this is Debir;
JOS 15:50 and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,
JOS 15:51 and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh - eleven cities, and their towns;
JOS 15:52 Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean,
JOS 15:53 and Janum, and Beth-tappuah, and Aphekah,
JOS 15:54 and Humtah, and the city Arba - this is Hebron, and Zior - nine cities and their properties;
JOS 15:55 Maon, and Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah,
JOS 15:56 and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
JOS 15:57 Cain, and Gibeah, and Timnah - ten cities and their towns;
JOS 15:58 Halhul, and Beth-zur, and Gedor,
JOS 15:59 and Maarath, and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon - six cities, and their towns;
JOS 15:60 Kirjath-baal - this is the city Jearim, and Rabbah - two cities and their properties.
JOS 15:61 In the wilderness - Beth-arabah, and Middin, and Secacah,
JOS 15:62 and Nibshan, and the cities of the of Salts, and En-gedi - six cities and their towns.
JOS 15:63 And the Jebusite dwelt in Jerusalem, and the sons of Judah were not able to destroy them. And the Jebusites dwelt with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem until this day.
JOS 16:1 And the borders of the sons of Joseph were from the Jordan by Jericho, from the east wilderness. And it shall ascend from Jericho unto the mountainous area into Beth-el.
JOS 16:2 And it shall go forth from Beth-el to Luz, and it shall go by unto the borders of Archi Ataroth.
JOS 16:3 And it shall go to the west by the borders of Japhleti, unto the borders of Beth-horon the part below, and unto Gezer; and their outer reaches shall be to the sea.
JOS 16:4 And the sons of Joseph Manasseh and Ephraim inherited.
JOS 16:5 And the borders of the sons of Ephraim were according to their peoples. And the borders of their inheritance were from the east - Ataroth Addar, unto Beth-horon the upper.
JOS 16:6 And the borders shall go to the sea unto Michmethah from the north; and shall go by unto eastwards into Taanath-shiloh, and shall go towards the east to Janoah;
JOS 16:7 and it shall go down from Janoah to Ataroth, and their towns, and to Naarath, and shall come to Jericho, and pass out at the Jordan.
JOS 16:8 And from Tappuah the borders will go west unto the rushing stream Kanah; and its outer reaches will be at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim according to their peoples.
JOS 16:9 And the separated cities to the sons of Ephraim were in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Manasseh - all the cities, and their towns.
JOS 16:10 And Ephraim did not destroy the Canaanite dwelling in Gezer; but the Canaanite dwelt in Ephraim until this day, and became bondmen subject to tribute.
JOS 17:1 And the borders of the tribe of Manasseh were, (for this one is first-born of Joseph,) to Machir first-born of Manasseh, father of Gilead; for he was a man of war in Gilead and in Bashan.
JOS 17:2 And there became to the sons of Manasseh remaining according to their peoples - to the sons of Abiezer, and to the sons of Helek, and to the sons of Asriel, and to the sons of Shechem, and to the sons of Hepher, and to the sons of Shemida. These are sons of Manasseh son of Joseph - the males according to their peoples.
JOS 17:3 And to Zelophehad, son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh - there was not sons to him, but daughters. And these are the names of the daughters of Zelophehad - Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcha, and Tirzah.
JOS 17:4 And they stood before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua son of Nun, and before the rulers, saying, God gave charge through the hand of Moses to give to us an inheritance in the midst of our brothers. And there was given to them an inheritance by order of the LORD - a lot in the midst of their brothers of their father.
JOS 17:5 And a piece of measured out land fell to Manasseh - the plain of Labed of the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is on the other side of the Jordan;
JOS 17:6 for the daughters of the sons of Manasseh inherited a lot in the midst of their brothers. And the land of Gilead became to the sons of Manasseh - to the ones left behind.
JOS 17:7 And the borders of Manasseh were from Asher to Michmethah, which is by the face of Shechem; and it goes to the borders unto Jamin and to Jassib, and to the spring Naphthoth,
JOS 17:8 upon the borders of Manasseh belonging to the sons of Ephraim.
JOS 17:9 And the borders will go down unto the ravine unto the south by the ravine of Jariel - the terebinth of Ephraim, in the midst of the city of Manasseh. And the borders of Manasseh unto the north were to the rushing stream, and its outer reaches will be the sea.
JOS 17:10 From the south it was to Ephraim, and towards the north to Manasseh, and the sea will be their borders. And at Asher they join together towards the north, and to Issachar from the east.
JOS 17:11 And Manasseh will be with Issachar; and in Asher Beth-shean and their towns, and Ibleam and her daughter towns, and unto the ones dwelling in Dor and her towns, and unto the ones dwelling in En-dor and her towns, and unto the ones dwelling Taanach and her towns; and the ones dwelling Megiddo and her towns, and the third part of Napheta and her towns.
JOS 17:12 And the sons of Manasseh were not able to utterly destroy these cities. And the Canaanite began to dwell in this land.
JOS 17:13 And it came to pass when the sons of Israel grew strong, that they made the Canaanites subjects - and as to utterly destroy, they did not utterly destroy them.
JOS 17:14 And the sons of Joseph contradicted Joshua, saying, Why do you allot us one lot, and one piece of measured out land, and I am a populous people, and God blessed me?
JOS 17:15 And Joshua said to them, If you are a populous people, ascend into the forest, and clear it out for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim, if mount Ephraim restricts you.
JOS 17:16 And the sons of Joseph said, Mount Ephraim does not please us, for choice horses and an iron weapon is to all the Canaanite dwelling in the land Emek in Beth-shean, and in her towns, and in the valley of Jezreel.
JOS 17:17 And Joshua said to the sons of Joseph, to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, If you are many people, and have great strength, there shall not be to you only one lot.
JOS 17:18 For the forest shall be to you - for it is a forest, and you shall clear it out. And his departure will be to you whenever you should utterly destroy the Canaanite, ( though there is a choice cavalry to him - for he is strong,) for you excel in strength over him.
JOS 18:1 And an assembly was held, all the congregation of the sons of Israel, in Shiloh. And they pitched there the tent of the testimony, and the land was seized by them.
JOS 18:2 And the sons of Israel were left, for seven tribes did not inherit their inheritance.
JOS 18:3 And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, For how long shall you faint to enter to inherit the land which the LORD God of our fathers gave to us?
JOS 18:4 Give from out of yours three men from a tribe, and send them. And rising up, let them go through the land, and let them diagram it before me, as it shall behoove to divide it! And they came to him.
JOS 18:5 And he divided to them seven portions - Judah shall stand as a border from the south to them, and the sons of Joseph shall stand upon their border from the north.
JOS 18:6 And you portion the land into seven portions, and bring the diagram to me here, and I shall bring forth to you a lot here before the LORD your God!
JOS 18:7 For there is not a portion to the sons of Levi among you; for the priesthood of the LORD is his portion. And Gad, and Reuben, and the half tribe of Manasseh received its inheritance on the other side of the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave to them.
JOS 18:8 And rising up, the men went. And Joshua gave charge to the men going to explore the land, saying, Spread, and go through the land, and explore it, and come to me, and I will bring forth to you here a lot before the LORD in Shiloh!
JOS 18:9 And the men went, and spread in the land, and explored it, and beheld it, and wrote about it according to her cities - seven portions in a scroll. And they brought it to Joshua in the camp in Shiloh.
JOS 18:10 And Joshua cast for them a lot in Shiloh before the LORD.
JOS 18:11 And Joshua portioned there the land to the sons of Israel, according to their distributions. And there came forth the lot of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin first according to their peoples. And the borders of their lot came forth between the sons of Judah and between the sons of Joseph.
JOS 18:12 And their borders were from the north of the Jordan - the borders shall ascend by the back of Jericho at the north, and shall ascend unto the mountain unto the west; and its outer reaches will be Madbariti of Beth-aven.
JOS 18:13 And the borders will go from there to Luz from the south - this is Beth-el, and the borders will go down from Ataroth Adar upon the mountainous area which is towards the south of Beth-horon - the part below.
JOS 18:14 And the borders shall go through, and go around upon the part that looks upon the west from the south, from the mountain upon the face of Beth-horon south; and its outer reaches will be unto Kirjath-baal (this is Kirjath-jearim) a city of the sons of Judah - this is the part towards the west.
JOS 18:15 And the part towards the south of the part of Kirjath-baal even shall go through unto Gasin, and it shall go forth to the spring of the water Nephtoah.
JOS 18:16 And the borders shall go down unto the part of the mountain which is at the face of the grove of the son Hinnom, which is of the part of Emek-rephaim from the north, and it shall go down unto Gehenna at the back of Jebus from the south, and shall go down upon the spring of Rogel.
JOS 18:17 And it shall pass out unto the north, and it shall go through to the spring of Beth-shemesh.
JOS 18:18 And it shall go by unto Geliloth, which is before by the ascent of Adummim, and shall go down upon the stone of Bohan of the sons of Reuben, and shall go by the back of Beth-araba from the north, and shall go down to the wilderness, and shall go by at the borders at the back of the sea from the north.
JOS 18:19 And the outer reaches of the borders shall be upon the ridge of the sea of salts from the north, to part of the Jordan from the south - these are the borders of the south.
JOS 18:20 And the Jordan shall define the bounds of it from the part from the east. This is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, its borders round about, according to their peoples.
JOS 18:21 And the cities of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin were according to their peoples - Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and Mekeziz,
JOS 18:22 and Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Beth-el,
JOS 18:23 and Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
JOS 18:24 and Chephar-haammonai, and Ophni and Gaba - twelve cities and their towns;
JOS 18:25 Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
JOS 18:26 and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
JOS 18:27 and Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
JOS 18:28 and Jebus (this is Jerusalem), and Gibeath, and the city Jearim - thirteen cities and their towns. This is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin according to their peoples.
JOS 19:1 And the second lot came forth - to Simeon, to the tribe of the sons of Simeon, according to their peoples. And their inheritance was between the lots of the sons of Judah.
JOS 19:2 And their lot was to them - Beer-sheba, and Sheba, and Moladah,
JOS 19:3 and Hazar-shual, and Balah, and Azem,
JOS 19:4 and Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah,
JOS 19:5 and Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah,
JOS 19:6 and Beth-lebaoth, and their fields - thirteen cities and their towns.
JOS 19:7 Ain, and Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan - four cities and their towns;
JOS 19:8 and all the properties round about these cities unto Baalath Beer Ramoth going towards the south. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Simeon according to their peoples.
JOS 19:9 From the lot of Judah was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, for the portion of the sons of Judah was greater than theirs - and the sons of Simeon inherited in the midst of their lot.
JOS 19:10 And came forth the third lot - to Zebulun according to their peoples; the borders of their inheritance will be unto Sarid.
JOS 19:11 And their borders ascend unto the west, and Maralah, and it joins together at Dabbasheth, and meets at the ravine which is at the face of Jokneam,
JOS 19:12 and returns from Sarid right opposite from east of Samis, unto the borders of Chisloth-tabor, and it shall go through upon Daberath, and shall ascend to Japhia,
JOS 19:13 and from there it shall go around right opposite eastwards upon Gittah-hepher and Zin, and shall go through unto Remmon Methoar to Neah;
JOS 19:14 and the borders shall go around towards the north unto Hannathon; and their outer reaches will be unto Gai Jiphthah-el;
JOS 19:15 and Kattath, and Nahallel, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Beth-lehem - Twelve cities and their towns.
JOS 19:16 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun according to their peoples, their cities and their towns.
JOS 19:17 And to Issachar came forth the fourth lot - to the sons of Issachar, according to their kin.
JOS 19:18 And their borders were Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
JOS 19:19 and Haphraim, and Shihon, and Anaharath,
JOS 19:20 and Rabbith, and Kishion, and Abez,
JOS 19:21 and Remeth, and En-gannim, and En-haddah, and Beth-pazzez.
JOS 19:22 And the borders joined together at Tabor, and at Shahazimah, and Beth-shemesh; and the outer reaches of their borders will be the Jordan - Sixteen cities and their towns.
JOS 19:23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Issachar according to peoples, and the cities and their towns.
JOS 19:24 And came forth the fifth lot - to the tribe of the sons of Asher according to their peoples.
JOS 19:25 And their borders were Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,
JOS 19:26 and Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal; and it shall join together with Carmel by the west, and to Shihor, and Libnath;
JOS 19:27 and it will turn from the east of the sun and Beth-dagon, and shall join together with Zebulun, and unto Jiphthah-el, according to the north of Beth-emek and Neiel, and shall go unto Cabul from the left,
JOS 19:28 and Akran, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah unto the great Sidon;
JOS 19:29 and the borders shall turn to Ramah, and unto the fortress city of the Tyrians; and the borders shall turn to Hosah; and his outer reaches will be the sea, and it shall be from the measured land of Achzib;
JOS 19:30 and Ummah, and Aphek, and Rehob - twenty-two cities and their towns.
JOS 19:31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Asher according to their peoples, their cities and their towns.
JOS 19:32 And came forth to Naphtali the sixth lot - to the sons of Naphtali according to their peoples.
JOS 19:33 And their borders were Heleph, and Allon to Zaanannim, and Adami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, unto Lakum; and their outer reaches were the Jordan.
JOS 19:34 And the borders turned unto the west to Aznoth Tabor, and shall go from there unto Hukkok, and it shall join together to Zebulun from the south, and Asher will join it towards the west, and Judah of the Jordan from the east sun.
JOS 19:35 And the walled cities of the Tyrians - Tyre, and Hammath and Rakkath, and Chinnereth,
JOS 19:36 and Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor,
JOS 19:37 and Kedesh, and Edrei, and the spring of Hazor,
JOS 19:38 and Iron, and Migdal-el, Horem, and Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh - ten and nine cities and their towns.
JOS 19:39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali according to their kin, and the cities and their properties.
JOS 19:40 And to the tribe of the sons of Dan according to their peoples came forth the seventh lot.
JOS 19:41 And the borders of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, city Shemesh,
JOS 19:42 and Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Jethlah,
JOS 19:43 and Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron,
JOS 19:44 and Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalath,
JOS 19:45 and Jehud, and Bene-berak, and Gath-rimmon.
JOS 19:46 And towards the west of Me-jarkon and Rakkon, whose border was neighboring Japho.
JOS 19:47 And went forth the border of the sons of Dan. And the sons of Dan went and waged war against Leshem, and overtook it, and struck it by the mouth of the sword, and inherited it, and dwelt it, and called the name Leshem Dan, according to the name Dan their father.
JOS 19:48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Dan according to their kin, their cities and their towns.
JOS 19:49 And they completed to allot the land unto their borders. And the sons of Israel gave a lot to Joshua son of Nun among them,
JOS 19:50 by the order of the LORD. And they gave to him the city which he asked - Timnath-serah, which is in mount Ephraim. And he built the city, and he dwelt in it.
JOS 19:51 These are the divisions which Eleazar the priest divided by lot, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the rulers of the families among the tribes of Israel, according to the lots in Shiloh before the LORD, by the doors of the tent of the testimony. And they went entering into the land.
JOS 20:1 And the LORD spoke to Joshua, saying,
JOS 20:2 Speak to the sons of Israel! saying, Appoint to you the cities of the places of refuge which I spoke to you through Moses -
JOS 20:3 a place of refuge to the manslayer striking a life unintentionally without forethought! And the cities shall be to you a place of refuge, and the manslayer shall not die by the one acting as next of kin for blood.
JOS 20:4 And he shall flee to one of these cities, and shall stay at the door of the gate of his city, and shall speak in the ears of the elders of that city concerning his words. And the congregation shall return him to them, and shall appoint to him a place, and he shall dwell with them.
JOS 20:5 And when the one acting as next of kin for blood should pursue after him, that they shall not consign the one manslaying into his hand, for he struck his neighbor not knowing, and he himself was not disliking him from yesterday, and the third day before.
JOS 20:6 And he shall dwell in that city, until he should stand in front of the congregation for judgment, until the great priest should die, who shall be in those days. Then the man-slayer shall return, and shall come unto his city, and to his house, even to the city from where he fled from there.
JOS 20:7 And he separated Kadesh in Galilee in mount Naphtali, and Shechem in mount Ephraim, and the city Arba (this is Hebron) in the mountain of Judah.
JOS 20:8 And on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho from the east, he gave Bezer in the wilderness on the plain of the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth in Gilead of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan of the tribe of Manasseh.
JOS 20:9 These were the cities selected to all sons of Israel, and to the foreigner lying near among them, to take refuge there, to any one unintentionally hitting a soul, that he should not die by the hand of the one acting as next of kin for blood, until whenever he should be placed before the congregation for judgment.
JOS 21:1 And came forward the chief patriarchs of the sons of Levi to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the tribal chiefs of the families of the tribes of the sons of Israel.
JOS 21:2 And they spoke to them in Shiloh, in the land of Canaan, saying, The LORD gave charge by the hand of Moses to give to us cities to dwell in, and their outskirts for our cattle.
JOS 21:3 And the sons of Israel gave to the Levites in their inheriting by the order of the LORD these cities and their outskirts.
JOS 21:4 And the lot came forth to the people of Kohath, and it was to the sons of Aaron, to the priests, to the Levites from the cities of the tribe of Judah, and from the tribe of Simeon, and from the tribe of Benjamin - thirteen cities by casting lots.
JOS 21:5 And to the sons of Kohath, to the ones being left from out of the kin, of the tribe of Ephraim, and from out of the tribe of Dan, and from the half tribe of Manasseh - ten cities by casting lots.
JOS 21:6 And to the sons of Gershon, from the kin of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan - thirteen cities by casting lots.
JOS 21:7 And to the sons of Merari, according to their peoples, from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulun - twelve cities by casting lots.
JOS 21:8 And the sons of Israel gave to the Levites these cities and their outskirts, in which manner the LORD gave charge to Moses by casting lots.
JOS 21:9 And he gave the tribe of the sons of Judah, and the tribe of Simeon these cities. And they were called by name.
JOS 21:10 And they became to the sons of Aaron, of the people of Kohath, of the sons of Levi; for the lot came to these first.
JOS 21:11 And they gave to them Kirjath-arba, mother-city of the Anak (this is Hebron) in the mountain of Judah, and the outskirts of it round about it.
JOS 21:12 But the fields of the city, and her towns, Joshua gave to Caleb son of Jephunneh for his possession.
JOS 21:13 And to the sons of Aaron the priest he gave the city, the place of refuge for the one manslaying - Hebron and the parts being separated with it, and Libnah and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:14 and Jattir and the parts being separated with it, and Eshtemoa and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:15 and Holon and the parts being separated with it, and Debir and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:16 and Ain and the parts being separated with it, and Juttah and the parts being separated with it, and Beth-shemesh and the parts being separated with it - nine cities from these two tribes.
JOS 21:17 And from the tribe of Benjamin - Gibeon and the parts being separated with it, and Geba and the parts being separated with it
JOS 21:18 and Anathoth and the parts being separated with it, and Almon and the parts being separated with it - four cities.
JOS 21:19 All the cities of the sons of Aaron of the priests - thirteen cities and their outskirts.
JOS 21:20 And to the peoples of the sons of Kohath, to the Levites being left behind from the sons of Kohath - and the city of their borders came from the tribe of Ephraim.
JOS 21:21 And they gave to them the city of the place of refuge for the one manslaying - Shechem and the parts being separated with it in mount Ephraim, and Gezer and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:22 and Kibzaim and the parts being separated with it, and Beth-horon and the parts being separated with it - four cities.
JOS 21:23 And from the tribe of Dan - Eltekeh and the parts being separated with it, and Gibbethon and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:24 and Aijalon and the parts being separated with it, and Gath-rimmon and the parts being separated with it - four cities.
JOS 21:25 And from the half tribe of Manasseh, Tanach and the parts being separated with it, and Gath-rimmon and the parts being separated with it - two cities.
JOS 21:26 All the ten cities and the parts being separated with them were to the peoples of the sons of Kohath being left behind.
JOS 21:27 And to the sons of Gershon, to the relatives, to the Levites, the cities were from the half tribe of Manasseh, the parts being separated for the ones manslaying - Golan in Bashan and the parts being separated with it, and Beesh-terah and the parts being separated with it - two cities.
JOS 21:28 And from the tribe of Issachar - Kishon and the parts being separated with it, Dabareh and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:29 and Jarmuth and the parts being separated with it, and Spring of Letters and the parts being separated with it - four cities.
JOS 21:30 And from out of the tribe of Asher - Mishal and the parts being separated with it, and Abdon and the parts being separated with it,
JOS 21:31 and Helkath and the parts being separated with it, and Rehob and the parts being separated with it - four cities.
JOS 21:32 And from out of the tribe of Naphtali - the cities being separated for the one manslaying - Kedesh in Galilee and the parts being separated with it, and Hamoth-dor and the parts being separated with it, and Kartan and the parts being separated with it - three cities.
JOS 21:33 All the cities of Gershon according to their peoples - thirteen cities and the parts being separated with them.
JOS 21:34 And to the people of the sons of Merari, to the Levites, to the ones remaining from the tribe of the sons of Zebulun - Jokneam and the outskirts of it, and Kartah and the outskirts of it,
JOS 21:35 and Dimnah and the outskirts of it, and Nahalal and the outskirts of it - four cities.
JOS 21:36 And cities of the Jordan of Jericho, from out of the tribe of Reuben, the city of the place of refuge of the one manslaying - Bezer and the outskirts of it, and Jahazah and the outskirts of it,
JOS 21:37 and Kedemoth and the outskirts of it, and Maphaath and the outskirts of it - four cities.
JOS 21:38 And from the tribe of Gad, the city of the place of refuge of the one manslaying - Ramoth in Gilead and the outskirts of it, and Mahanaim and the outskirts of it,
JOS 21:39 and Heshbon and the outskirts of it, and Jazer and the outskirts of it - all the cities were four.
JOS 21:40 All the cities to the sons of Merari, according to their peoples of the ones left from the tribe of Levi, even were from their borders - twelve cities.
JOS 21:41 All cities of the Levites in the midst of the possessions of the sons of Israel - forty-eight cities,
JOS 21:42 and their outskirts. Round about these cities, city by city, and their outskirts round about the cities - thus to all these cities.
JOS 21:43 And the LORD gave to Israel all the land which he swore by an oath to give to their fathers; and they inherited it, and dwelt in it.
JOS 21:44 And the LORD rested them round about, in so far as he swore by an oath to their fathers. Not one rose up before them of all their enemies; the LORD delivered up all their enemies into their hands.
JOS 21:45 Not a word failed from all of the good words which the LORD spoke to the sons of Israel - all came to pass.
JOS 22:1 Then Joshua called together the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh.
JOS 22:2 And he said to them, You have heard the whole, as much as Moses the servant of the LORD gave charge to you, and you heeded my voice according to all as much as I gave charge to you.
JOS 22:3 And you have not abandoned your brothers these many days - until the day of today you guarded the commandment of the LORD our God.
JOS 22:4 And now the LORD our God rested our brothers, in which manner he spoke to them. Now then in returning, you go forth to your houses, and to the land of your possession, which Moses the bondman of the LORD gave to you on the other side of the Jordan.
JOS 22:5 But guard exceedingly to do the commandments and the law, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave charge to you - to love the LORD your God, and to go by all his ways, to guard his commandments, and to lie near to them, and to serve to him in all your thought, and of your entire soul.
JOS 22:6 And Joshua blessed them, and sent them. And they went unto their houses.
JOS 22:7 And to the one half of the tribe Moses gave a portion in Bashan; and to the other one half Joshua gave a portion with his brothers on the other side of the Jordan towards the west. And when Joshua sent them unto their houses, then he blessed them saying,
JOS 22:8 With many things they went forth unto their houses, and with exceedingly much cattle, and silver, and gold, and brass, and iron tools, and exceedingly much clothes - and they divided the spoils of their enemies with their brothers.
JOS 22:9 And the sons of Reuben returned and went, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, from the sons of Israel from out of Shiloh, in the land of Canaan, to go forth into the land of Gilead, into a land of their possession, which they inherited it, through the order of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
JOS 22:10 And they came into Galeloth of Jordan, which is in the land of Canaan. And they built (the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh) there a shrine upon the Jordan - a great shrine to behold.
JOS 22:11 And the sons of Israel heard, saying, Behold, they built (the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh) a shrine upon the border of the land of Canaan, at Gilead of the Jordan, on the other side of the sons of Israel.
JOS 22:12 And the sons of Israel heard, and all the sons of Israel gathered together in Shiloh for their ascending to wage war.
JOS 22:13 And the sons of Israel sent to the sons of Reuben, and to the sons of Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, into the land of Gilead, both Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest,
JOS 22:14 and ten of the rulers with him; one ruler from a house of a family, from all of the tribes of Israel, men rulers of the houses of the families - they are commanders of thousands in Israel.
JOS 22:15 And they came to the sons of Reuben, and to the sons of Gad, and to the half of the tribe of Manasseh, unto the land of Gilead. And they spoke to them, saying,
JOS 22:16 Thus says all the congregation of the LORD, What is this trespass which you trespass before the God of Israel, to turn away today from behind the LORD, by building for yourselves a shrine, for you to become defectors today from the LORD?
JOS 22:17 Is it a small thing to you, the sin of Peor, that we were not cleansed from it unto this day, and there became the calamity in the congregation of the LORD?
JOS 22:18 And you were turned away today from the LORD, and tomorrow there will be anger upon all Israel.
JOS 22:19 And now, if the land of your possession be small, pass over into the land of the possession of the LORD, where the tent of the LORD encamps there! And you inherit among us, and be not defectors from the LORD, and do not separate from us on account of your building a shrine outside the altar of the LORD our God!
JOS 22:20 Behold, did not Achan the son of Zara trespass a trespass from the offering for consumption, and anger became upon all the congregation? And this one only sinned, but not this one alone died for his sin.
JOS 22:21 And they answered, (the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh,) and said to the commanders of thousands of Israel, saying,
JOS 22:22 God, the LORD is God. And God, the LORD God himself knows, and Israel itself shall know - if we trespassed by defection before the LORD, may he not rescue us in this day.
JOS 22:23 And if we built a shrine for ourselves, so as to depart from the LORD, or so as to haul upon it a sacrifice of whole burnt offerings, or so as to make upon it a sacrifice of deliverance, the LORD himself shall inquire.
JOS 22:24 But we did this thing because of veneration, saying that, Should tomorrow your children say to our children, saying, What is it to you and to the LORD God of Israel?
JOS 22:25 And the LORD put a border between us and you, the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad - the Jordan; and there is not a portion to you of the LORD. And your sons shall separate from our sons, that they should not worship the LORD.
JOS 22:26 And we said to do thus, to build this shrine, not because of yield offerings, nor because of sacrifices;
JOS 22:27 but that this testimony might be between us and between you, and between our generations after us, to serve the service of the LORD before him in our yield offerings, and in our sacrifices, and in the sacrifices of our deliverances offerings; and so that your children shall not say tomorrow to our children, There is not a portion to you of the LORD.
JOS 22:28 And we said, If it comes to pass at some time or other, and they shall speak to us or to our generations tomorrow, then we shall say, Behold, it is a representation of the altar of the LORD, which our fathers made! It is not for yield offerings, nor for sacrifices; but it is a testimony between you, and between us, and between our sons.
JOS 22:29 May it not be then for us to leave from the LORD, so as to turn away in today's days from the LORD, so as to build us an altar for the yield offerings, and the sacrifice offerings, and the sacrifice of deliverance offering, except for the altar of the LORD our God which is before his tent.
JOS 22:30 And Phinehas the priest heard, and all the rulers of the congregation, and the commanders of Israel who were with him, the words which they spoke, (the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and the sons of Manasseh,) and it pleased them.
JOS 22:31 And Phinehas son of Eleazar the priest said to the sons of Reuben, and to the sons of Gad, and to the sons of Manasseh, Today we know that the LORD is with us, for you did not trespass before the LORD this trespass, and that you rescued the sons of Israel from out of the hand of the LORD.
JOS 22:32 And Phinehas son of Eleazar the priest and the rulers returned from the sons of Reuben, and from the sons of Gad, from out of Gilead, unto the land of Canaan, to the sons of Israel, and answered to them with these words.
JOS 22:33 And the word was pleasing to the sons of Israel; and they blessed the God of the sons of Israel, and no longer spoke to ascend to them for war, to utterly destroy the land of the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad which they dwelt upon it.
JOS 22:34 And he named the shrine for Reuben and for Gad. And they said that, It is a testimony in the midst of them, that the LORD he is their God.
JOS 23:1 And it came to pass after many days, after the LORD God rested Israel from all their enemies round about, and Joshua was older being advanced in days,
JOS 23:2 that Joshua called together all the sons of Israel, and their council of elders, and their rulers, and their magistrates, and their scribes, and said to them, I grow old and advanced in days.
JOS 23:3 And you have seen all things as much as the LORD our God did to all these nations from in front of you; for the LORD our God, he is the one waging war for you.
JOS 23:4 Behold, whatsoever I said, I cast to you nations, the ones being left to you. These lands will be for lots to your tribes. All the nations from the Jordan I utterly destroyed, and from the great sea - you shall define the bounds by the descent of the sun.
JOS 23:5 And the LORD your God, he shall utterly destroy them from in front of you, and shall utterly destroy them from your face; and you shall inherit their land, as the LORD your God spoke to you.
JOS 23:6 Grow strong then exceedingly to guard and to do all things being written in the scroll of the law of Moses! that you should not turn aside from him to the right or to the left.
JOS 23:7 You should not enter unto these nations being left with you; and the names of their gods you shall not name among you. And you shall not swear by an oath, nor should you serve, nor should you do obeisance to them.
JOS 23:8 But to the LORD your God you shall cleave, just as you did until this day.
JOS 23:9 And the LORD shall utterly destroy them from your face - great and strong nations. And to you no one withstood before you until this day.
JOS 23:10 One man of you pursued a thousand. For the LORD our God, this one wages war for you, just as he spoke to you.
JOS 23:11 But guard exceedingly your lives, to love the LORD your God!
JOS 23:12 For if you should turn away, and should proceed to leave behind these nations with you, and you should make connections by marriage with them, and mix together with them, and they with you -
JOS 23:13 with knowledge know that in no way shall the LORD your God proceed to utterly destroy these nations from your face. And they will be to you for snares, and for obstacles, and for nails in your heels, and for arrows in your eyes, until whenever you should destroy them from this good land which the LORD your God gave to you.
JOS 23:14 But I run today the way as also all the ones upon the earth. And you shall know in your whole heart, and in your whole soul, that one word failed not from all of the good words of which the LORD our God spoke concerning you. All the things being related to us - he dissented not from them one word.
JOS 23:15 And it will be in which manner all the good things come unto you which the LORD your God spoke unto you; so the LORD will bring upon you all the bad things, until he should utterly destroy you from this good land which the LORD your God gave to you,
JOS 23:16 in your violating the covenant of the LORD your God, which he gave charge to you, and going you shall serve other gods, and you shall do obeisance to them, and the LORD shall be provoked to anger in rage with you, and you shall perish quickly from the good land which the LORD gave to you.
JOS 24:1 And Joshua brought together all the tribes of Israel to Shechem. And he called together the elders of Israel, and their rulers, and their magistrates, and their scribes; and they stood before God.
JOS 24:2 And Joshua said to all the people, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, On the other side of the river your fathers dwelled from the beginning - Terah the father of Abraham, and the father of Nachor; and they served other gods.
JOS 24:3 And I took your father Abraham from out of the other side of the river, and guided him in all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed.
JOS 24:4 And I gave to him Isaac; and I gave to Isaac Jacob and Esau; and I gave to Esau mount Seir, for an inheritance to him; and Jacob and his sons went down into Egypt.
JOS 24:5 And I sent Moses and Aaron, and he struck Egypt with the things which he did among them.
JOS 24:6 And after these things he led you, and he led your fathers from out of Egypt. And you entered into the sea. And the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and with horses into the red sea.
JOS 24:7 And we yelled to the LORD, and he put a cloud and dimness between you and between the Egyptians. And he brought upon them the sea, and it covered them. And your eyes beheld as much as the LORD did in the land of Egypt. And you were in the wilderness many days.
JOS 24:8 And he led you into the land of the Amorites dwelling on the other side of the Jordan; and they deployed against you. And the LORD delivered them into your hands, and you inherited their land, and you utterly destroyed them from your face.
JOS 24:9 And Balak rose up, the son of Zippor, king of Moab, and deployed against Israel. And sending, he called Balaam son of Beor to curse you.
JOS 24:10 And the LORD your God did not want to destroy you; and with blessings he blessed you, and rescued you from their hands.
JOS 24:11 And you passed over the Jordan, and came to Jericho. And the ones dwelling in Jericho waged war against you - the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and he delivered them into your hands.
JOS 24:12 And he sent the swarm of wasps in front of you. And he cast them out from your presence - the two kings of the Amorites; but not by your broadsword, nor by your bow.
JOS 24:13 And he gave to you the land upon which you tired not by labor upon it, and cities which you built not, and you settled upon them. And he gave vineyards and olive groves which you planted not, but you shall eat from.
JOS 24:14 And now, fear the LORD, and serve him in straightness, and in righteousness, and remove the alien gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river, and in Egypt - and you serve to the LORD!
JOS 24:15 But if it is not pleasing to you to serve to the LORD, choose to yourselves today whom you should serve - whether to the gods of your fathers on the other side of the river, or whether to the gods of the Amorites, in which you dwell upon their land. But I and my house, we will serve to the LORD!
JOS 24:16 And responding the people said, May it not be to us to leave the LORD, so as to serve other gods.
JOS 24:17 The LORD our God - he led us and our fathers from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery, and as many as these great signs he did to us, and guarded us in all the way which we went by it, and among all the nations which we went through them.
JOS 24:18 And the LORD cast out all the nations, and the Amorite dwelling the land, from our face. But also we will serve to the LORD; for this one is our God.
JOS 24:19 And Joshua said to all the people, In no way shall you be able to serve to the LORD, (for he is holy, and God is jealous - this one shall not spare your violations of the law, and your sins;)
JOS 24:20 when ever you should abandon the LORD, and should serve alien gods. And coming he shall afflict you, and shall completely consume you, because he did good to you.
JOS 24:21 And the people said to Joshua, No, but to the LORD we shall serve.
JOS 24:22 And Joshua said to the people, You are witnesses according to yourselves that you yourselves chose the LORD, to serve him. And they said, We are witnesses.
JOS 24:23 And now, remove the alien gods among you, and straighten the heart to the LORD God of Israel!
JOS 24:24 And the people said to Joshua, To the LORD our God we shall serve, and of his voice we shall hearken.
JOS 24:25 And Joshua ordained a covenant with the people in that day. And he gave to them the law and judgment in Shechem.
JOS 24:26 And Joshua wrote these things in a scroll of the law of God. And Joshua took a great stone and set it there under the terebinth tree before the LORD.
JOS 24:27 And Joshua said to all the people, Behold, this stone will be to you for a testimony; for it has heard all the things being said by the LORD, as much as he spoke to you today. And this will be among you for a testimony unto the last of the days, when ever you should lie to the LORD your God.
JOS 24:28 And Joshua sent the people each to his place.
JOS 24:29 And it came to pass after those things Joshua the son of Nun died - a servant of the LORD who was a hundred ten years old.
JOS 24:30 And they entombed him by the borders of his inheritance in Timmnath-serah, in mount Ephraim, from the north of the mountain of Gaash.
JOS 24:31 And Israel served to the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders, as many as dragged on in time after Joshua, and as many as beheld all the works of the LORD, as much as he did to Israel.
JOS 24:32 And the sons of Israel took up the bones of Joseph from out of Egypt, and they buried them in Shechem, in the portion of the field of which Jacob acquired from the Amorites dwelling in Shechem for a hundred ewe-lambs, and gave it to Joseph for a portion.
JOS 24:33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the chief priest came to an end; and he was entombed in Gabath of Phinehas his son, which he gave to him in mount Ephraim.
JDG 1:1 And it came to pass after the decease of Joshua, that the sons of Israel asked in the LORD, saying, Who shall ascend with us against the Canaanite, guiding to wage war against them.
JDG 1:2 And the LORD said, Judah shall ascend. Behold, I have put the land in his hand.
JDG 1:3 And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Ascend with me unto my lot, for we should wage war with the Canaanite; and I shall go also with you unto your lot. And Simeon went with him.
JDG 1:4 And Judah ascended; and the LORD gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into his hand. And they struck them in Bezek - ten thousand men.
JDG 1:5 And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek. And they waged war with him, and they struck the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
JDG 1:6 And Adoni-bezek fled; and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off the thumbs of his hands, and the big toes of his feet.
JDG 1:7 And Adoni-bezek said, Seventy kings - the thumbs of their hands, and the big toes of their feet being cut off were collected together underneath my table. As then I did, so God recompensed to me. And they led him unto Jerusalem, and he died there.
JDG 1:8 And the sons of Judah waged war with Jerusalem, and overtook it, and struck it by the mouth of the broadsword, and the city they burnt with fire.
JDG 1:9 And after these things the sons of Judah went down to wage war with the Canaanite dwelling the mountainous area, and the south, and the plain country.
JDG 1:10 And Judah went to the Canaanite dwelling in Hebron; (and the name Hebron was formerly Kirjath-arba;) and they struck Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, offspring of the Anak.
JDG 1:11 And they went from there to the ones dwelling in Debir. And the name Debir was formerly Kirjath-sepher - City of Letters.
JDG 1:12 And Caleb said, Who ever should strike the City of the of Letters, and be first to take it, I will give to him Achsah my daughter for a wife.
JDG 1:13 And first to take it was Othniel son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb. And he gave to him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
JDG 1:14 And it came to pass in her entering, that he stirred her to ask for a field from her father. And she grumbled upon her beast of burden. And Caleb said to her, What is it with you?
JDG 1:15 And Achsah said to him, Give indeed to me a blessing, for into the land of the south you have handed me over, and you shall give to me a ransoming of water. And Caleb gave to her the ransom dowry. of the elevated springs, and the ransom of the ones below.
JDG 1:16 And the sons of Jothor the Kenite, father-in-law of Moses, ascended from out of the city of the palms to the sons of Judah into the wilderness of Judah being in the south upon the descent of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
JDG 1:17 And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they struck the Canaanite dwelling in Zephath, and devoted it to consumption, and utterly destroyed it. And they called the name of the city Devastation.
JDG 1:18 And Judah inherited Gaza and her border, and Ekron and her border, and Ashkelon and her border, and Ashdod and her outskirts.
JDG 1:19 And the LORD was with Judah; and he inherited the mountain, for he was not able to inherit the ones dwelling in the valley, for it was separated to them, and there were iron chariots to them.
JDG 1:20 And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses spoke. And he removed there the three sons of Anak.
JDG 1:21 And the sons of Benjamin did not remove the Jebusite dwelling Jerusalem. And the Jebusite dwelt with the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem until this day.
JDG 1:22 And the sons of Joseph ascended, and indeed they went into Beth-el - and the LORD was with them.
JDG 1:23 And they camped, and surveyed Beth-el. (But the name of the city was formerly Luz.)
JDG 1:24 And the ones keeping guard beheld a man going forth from out of the city, and they took him, and said to him, Show to us the entrance of the city, and we will deal mercifully with you.
JDG 1:25 And he showed to them the entrance of the city. And they struck the city by the mouth of the broadsword; but the man and his kin they sent out.
JDG 1:26 And the man went forth into the land of the Hittite, and built there a city, and called the name of it, Luz - this is its name until this day.
JDG 1:27 And Manasseh did not remove Beth-shean, nor her daughter towns, nor Taanach and her daughter towns, nor the ones dwelling Dor and her daughter towns, nor the ones dwelling Megiddo and her daughter towns, nor the ones dwelling Ibleam nor her daughter towns. And the Canaanite began to dwell in this land.
JDG 1:28 And it came to pass, when Israel grew in strength, that he established the Canaanite for tribute. but by removing, did not remove him.
JDG 1:29 And Ephraim did not remove the Canaanite dwelling in Gezer; and the Canaanite dwelt in the midst of him in Gezer.
JDG 1:30 And Zebulun did not remove the ones dwelling in Kitron, and the ones dwelling Nahalol. And the Canaanite dwelt in the midst of them, and became for tribute.
JDG 1:31 And Asher did not remove the ones dwelling Accho, and the ones dwelling Sidon, and the ones dwelling Ahlab, and Achzib, and Helbah, and Aphik, and Rehob.
JDG 1:32 And Asher dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite dwelling in the land - for he was not able to remove him.
JDG 1:33 And Naphtali did not remove the ones dwelling Beth-shemesh, and the ones dwelling Beth-anath. And Naphtali dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite dwelling the land. But the ones dwelling Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath became to them for tribute.
JDG 1:34 And the Amorite squeezed out the sons of Dan into the mountain, for they did not let him go down into the valley.
JDG 1:35 And the Amorite began to dwell in mount Heres, of which the bears and the foxes are. And the hand of the house of Joseph was oppressive upon the Amorite, and he became for tribute.
JDG 1:36 And the border of the Amorite was from the ascending of Akrabbim, from the rock, and above.
JDG 2:1 And an angel of the LORD ascended from Gilgal, unto the Place of Weeping, and said to them, The LORD transported you from Egypt, and brought you into the land which he swore by an oath to your fathers to give to you. And he said, I shall not efface my covenant with you into the eon.
JDG 2:2 And you shall not ordain a covenant with the ones lying in wait in this land, nor in any way shall you do obeisance to their gods; but their carved idols break, and their altars raze! And you hearkened not to my voice, nor did you do these things.
JDG 2:3 And I said, In no way shall I remove them from your face; and they will be to you for conflict, and their gods will be to you as an obstacle.
JDG 2:4 And it came to pass as the angel of the LORD spoke these words to all the sons of Israel, that the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
JDG 2:5 Therefore he called the name of that place, Weeping. And they sacrificed there to the LORD.
JDG 2:6 And Joshua sent out the people, and the sons of Israel each departed to his place, and to his inheritance, to inherit the land.
JDG 2:7 And the people served to the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders, as many as prolonged their days with Joshua, as many as knew every great work of the LORD which he did to Israel.
JDG 2:8 And Joshua the son of Nun came to an end, a servant of the LORD, a son of a hundred ten years.
JDG 2:9 And they entombed him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-heres, in mount Ephraim, from the north of mount Gaash.
JDG 2:10 And indeed all that generation was added to their fathers. And another generation rose up after them which knew not the LORD, and indeed the work which he did to Israel.
JDG 2:11 And the sons of Israel acted wickedly before the LORD, and served to the Baalim.
JDG 2:12 And they abandoned the LORD God of their fathers, the one leading them from out of the land of Egypt. And they went after other gods from the gods of the peoples surrounding them. And they did obeisance to them, and provoked the LORD to anger.
JDG 2:13 And they abandoned the LORD, and served to Baal and to the Ashtoreths.
JDG 2:14 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage with Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of ones despoiling, and they carried them away captive. And he gave them into the hand of their enemies round about, and they were not able to oppose against the face of their enemies.
JDG 2:15 In all wherever they went, even the hand of the LORD was against them for bad, as the LORD said, and as the LORD swore to them - and he squeezed them exceedingly.
JDG 2:16 And the LORD raised up judges. And the LORD delivered them from out of the hand of the ones despoiling them. And they obeyed not their judges,
JDG 2:17 for they fornicated after other gods, and did obeisance to them, and provoked the LORD to anger, and turned aside quickly from out of the way of which their fathers went - of the listening to the commandments of the LORD, they did not do so.
JDG 2:18 And when the LORD raised up to them judges, then the LORD was with the judge, and he delivered them from out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge. For the LORD was moved to comfort because of their moaning from in front of the ones assaulting them and afflicting them.
JDG 2:19 And it came to pass, as the judge died, that they turned back, and again corrupted themselves above their fathers, to go after other gods, and to serve them, and to do obeisance to them - they did not disown their practices, and of their recalcitrant way.
JDG 2:20 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage with Israel. And he said, Because of as much as this nation abandoned my covenant which I gave charge to their fathers, and hearkened not to my voice;
JDG 2:21 then I shall not proceed to remove a man before their presence from the nations whom were left behind by Joshua.
JDG 2:22 And he allowed to test Israel by him, if they guard the way of the LORD, to go by it in which manner their fathers guarded, or not.
JDG 2:23 And the LORD left these nations so as to not remove them quickly; and he did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
JDG 3:1 And these are the nations which the LORD left with them, so as to test Israel by them, (all the ones not knowing all the wars of Canaan,
JDG 3:2 this was only for the sake of the generations of the sons of Israel, to teach them war, except the ones before them did not know them;)
JDG 3:3 the five satrapies of the Philistines, and every Canaanite, and the Sidonian, and the Hivite dwelling in Lebanon, from mount Baal-Hermon unto Hamath.
JDG 3:4 And it happened so as to test Israel by them, to know if they will hearken to the commandments of the LORD, which he gave charge to their fathers by the hand of Moses.
JDG 3:5 And the sons of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
JDG 3:6 And they took their daughters unto themselves for wives, and their daughters they gave to their sons, and served to their gods.
JDG 3:7 And the sons of Israel acted wickedly before the LORD, and forgot the LORD their God, and served to the Baalim, and to the sacred groves.
JDG 3:8 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage with Israel, and he gave them into the hands of Chushan-rishathaim king of Syria Mesopotamia. And the sons of Israel served to him eight years.
JDG 3:9 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD, and the LORD raised up a deliver to Israel, and he delivered them - Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, the one younger than him.
JDG 3:10 And spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel, and he went unto the war. And the LORD delivered Cushan-rishathaim king of Syria into his hand; and he fortified his hand against Cushan-rishathaim.
JDG 3:11 And the land was tranquil forty years. And Othniel son of Kenaz died.
JDG 3:12 And the sons of Israel proceeded to do wickedly before the LORD; and the LORD strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because of their acting wickedly before the LORD.
JDG 3:13 And he brought together to himself all the sons of Ammon and Amalek, and went and struck Israel, and inherited the city of the palms.
JDG 3:14 And the sons of Israel served to Eglon king of Moab eighteen years.
JDG 3:15 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD, and the LORD raised up to them a deliverer, Ehud son of Gera, son of Benjamin, a man ambidextrous. And the sons of Israel sent gifts by his hand to Eglon king of Moab.
JDG 3:16 And Ehud made for himself a sword, double-edged, a span being the length of it; and he girded it under the uniform, upon his right thigh.
JDG 3:17 And he brought the gifts to Eglon king of Moab. And Eglon was a man of exceedingly fair weight.
JDG 3:18 And it came to pass as Ehud completed bringing the gifts, that Eglon sent out the ones carrying the gifts.
JDG 3:19 And Ehud returned from the carvings by Gilgal. And Ehud said, There is with me a secret word for you, O king. And Eglon said to him, Be silent! And went forth from him all the ones standing around him.
JDG 3:20 And Ehud entered to him. And he sat in his upper harvest room alone. And Ehud said, There is a word of God with me to you, O king. And Eglon rose up from the throne near him.
JDG 3:21 And it happened together in his rising up, that Ehud stretched out his left hand and took the sword from his right thigh, and stuck it into the belly of Eglon.
JDG 3:22 And he brought in addition also indeed the handle after the blade; and the fat locked onto the blade, for he could not pull out the sword from out of his belly.
JDG 3:23 And Ehud went forth into the antechamber, and went forth by the things set in order, and locked the doors of the upper room by him, and wedged them.
JDG 3:24 And he went forth. And his servants entered, and they saw, and behold, the doors of the upper room were wedged. And they said, Perhaps he sits with the chair in the voidance of the bedroom.
JDG 3:25 And they remained being ashamed. And behold, there was not one opening the doors of the upper room. And they took the key, and they opened. And behold, their master was fallen upon the ground having died.
JDG 3:26 And Ehud came through safe, until they made a disruption. And there was not one paying attention to him. And he went by the carvings, and came through safe into Seirath.
JDG 3:27 And it came to pass, when he came, that he trumped a horn in mount Ephraim, and the sons of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he in front of them.
JDG 3:28 And he said to them, Come down after me, for the LORD God delivered up our enemies of Moab into our hand. And they went down after him. And they first took the ford of the Jordan of Moab, and they did not allow a man to pass over.
JDG 3:29 And they struck Moab in that time, about ten thousand men, all the warriors, and every man having power; and not a man came through safe.
JDG 3:30 And Moab felt shame in that day under the hand of Israel. And the land was tranquil eighty years.
JDG 3:31 And after him rose up Shamgar son of Anath, and he struck the Philistines up to six hundred men by the plowshare of the oxen; and he himself delivered Israel.
JDG 3:1 And these are the nations which the LORD left with them, so as to test Israel by them, (all the ones not knowing all the wars of Canaan,
JDG 3:2 this was only for the sake of the generations of the sons of Israel, to teach them war, except the ones before them did not know them;)
JDG 3:3 the five satrapies of the Philistines, and every Canaanite, and the Sidonian, and the Hivite dwelling in Lebanon, from mount Baal-Hermon unto Hamath.
JDG 3:4 And it happened so as to test Israel by them, to know if they will hearken to the commandments of the LORD, which he gave charge to their fathers by the hand of Moses.
JDG 3:5 And the sons of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
JDG 3:6 And they took their daughters unto themselves for wives, and their daughters they gave to their sons, and served to their gods.
JDG 3:7 And the sons of Israel acted wickedly before the LORD, and forgot the LORD their God, and served to the Baalim, and to the sacred groves.
JDG 3:8 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage with Israel, and he gave them into the hands of Chushan-rishathaim king of Syria Mesopotamia. And the sons of Israel served to him eight years.
JDG 3:9 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD, and the LORD raised up a deliver to Israel, and he delivered them - Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, the one younger than him.
JDG 3:10 And spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel, and he went unto the war. And the LORD delivered Cushan-rishathaim king of Syria into his hand; and he fortified his hand against Cushan-rishathaim.
JDG 3:11 And the land was tranquil forty years. And Othniel son of Kenaz died.
JDG 3:12 And the sons of Israel proceeded to do wickedly before the LORD; and the LORD strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because of their acting wickedly before the LORD.
JDG 3:13 And he brought together to himself all the sons of Ammon and Amalek, and went and struck Israel, and inherited the city of the palms.
JDG 3:14 And the sons of Israel served to Eglon king of Moab eighteen years.
JDG 3:15 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD, and the LORD raised up to them a deliverer, Ehud son of Gera, son of Benjamin, a man ambidextrous. And the sons of Israel sent gifts by his hand to Eglon king of Moab.
JDG 3:16 And Ehud made for himself a sword, double-edged, a span being the length of it; and he girded it under the uniform, upon his right thigh.
JDG 3:17 And he brought the gifts to Eglon king of Moab. And Eglon was a man of exceedingly fair weight.
JDG 3:18 And it came to pass as Ehud completed bringing the gifts, that Eglon sent out the ones carrying the gifts.
JDG 3:19 And Ehud returned from the carvings by Gilgal. And Ehud said, There is with me a secret word for you, O king. And Eglon said to him, Be silent! And went forth from him all the ones standing around him.
JDG 3:20 And Ehud entered to him. And he sat in his upper harvest room alone. And Ehud said, There is a word of God with me to you, O king. And Eglon rose up from the throne near him.
JDG 3:21 And it happened together in his rising up, that Ehud stretched out his left hand and took the sword from his right thigh, and stuck it into the belly of Eglon.
JDG 3:22 And he brought in addition also indeed the handle after the blade; and the fat locked onto the blade, for he could not pull out the sword from out of his belly.
JDG 3:23 And Ehud went forth into the antechamber, and went forth by the things set in order, and locked the doors of the upper room by him, and wedged them.
JDG 3:24 And he went forth. And his servants entered, and they saw, and behold, the doors of the upper room were wedged. And they said, Perhaps he sits with the chair in the voidance of the bedroom.
JDG 3:25 And they remained being ashamed. And behold, there was not one opening the doors of the upper room. And they took the key, and they opened. And behold, their master was fallen upon the ground having died.
JDG 3:26 And Ehud came through safe, until they made a disruption. And there was not one paying attention to him. And he went by the carvings, and came through safe into Seirath.
JDG 3:27 And it came to pass, when he came, that he trumped a horn in mount Ephraim, and the sons of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he in front of them.
JDG 3:28 And he said to them, Come down after me, for the LORD God delivered up our enemies of Moab into our hand. And they went down after him. And they first took the ford of the Jordan of Moab, and they did not allow a man to pass over.
JDG 3:29 And they struck Moab in that time, about ten thousand men, all the warriors, and every man having power; and not a man came through safe.
JDG 3:30 And Moab felt shame in that day under the hand of Israel. And the land was tranquil eighty years.
JDG 3:31 And after him rose up Shamgar son of Anath, and he struck the Philistines up to six hundred men by the plowshare of the oxen; and he himself delivered Israel.
JDG 4:1 And the sons of Israel proceeded to act wickedly before the LORD; and Ehud died.
JDG 4:2 And the LORD delivered them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. And the ruler of his force was Sisera, and he dwelt in Harosheth of the nations.
JDG 4:3 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD, because nine hundred chariots of iron were his. And he afflicted Israel by might for twenty years.
JDG 4:4 And Deborah, a woman prophetess, wife of Lapidoth - she judged Israel in that time.
JDG 4:5 And she sat down under the palm of Deborah, between Rama and between Beth-el, in mount Ephraim. And the sons of Israel ascended to her there to be judged.
JDG 4:6 And Deborah sent and called Barak son of Abinoam from out of Kedesh Naphtali. And she said to him, Did not the LORD God of Israel give charge to you, saying, that you shall go forth unto mount Tabor, and you shall take with yourself ten thousand men from the sons of Naphtali, and from the sons of Zebulun?
JDG 4:7 And I shall bring to you at the rushing stream Kishon, Sisera ruler of the force of Jabin, and his chariots, and his multitude; and I will deliver him into your hand.
JDG 4:8 And Barak said to her, If you should go with me, I will go; and if you should not go, I will not go.
JDG 4:9 And Deborah said to him, In going I will go with you. Except know that the honor will not be yours in the way which you go; for by the hand of a woman the LORD will deliver up Sisera. And Deborah rose up, and went with Barak from out of Kedesh.
JDG 4:10 And Barak summoned to Zebulun and to Naphtali unto Kedesh. And ten thousand men ascended by his feet - and Deborah ascended with him.
JDG 4:11 And the near ones of the Kenite were separated from Kena, from the sons of Hobab father-in-law of Moses. And he pitched his tent by Oak of the ones Resting, which is next to Kedesh.
JDG 4:12 And it was announced to Sisera that Barak son of Abinoam ascended unto mount Tabor.
JDG 4:13 And Sisera called all his chariots - nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people with him, from Harosheth of the nations unto the rushing stream Kishon.
JDG 4:14 And Deborah said to Barak, Rise up! for this is the day in which the LORD delivers Sisera into your hand. Behold, is not the LORD gone in front of you? And Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men behind him.
JDG 4:15 And the LORD startled Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his camp, by the mouth of the broadsword before Barak. And Sisera came down from on top of his chariot, and fled by his feet.
JDG 4:16 And Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the camp unto Oak of the Nations. And all the camp of Sisera fell by the mouth of the broadsword - there was not left behind even one.
JDG 4:17 And Sisera withdrew by his feet to the tent of Jael wife of Heber the Kenite - for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor and between the house of Heber the Kenite.
JDG 4:18 And Jael came forth for a meeting with Sisera. And she said to him, Turn aside, O my master, turn aside to me! Fear not! And he turned aside to her into the tent. And she covered him with her hide covering.
JDG 4:19 And Sisera said to her, Give a drink please to me - a little water, for I am thirsty! And she opened the leather bag of the milk, and she gave him to drink, and she covered his person.
JDG 4:20 And he said to her, Stand in the door of the tent! And it will be if a man should come to you, and should ask you, and should say to you, Is a man here? that you shall say, There is not.
JDG 4:21 And Jael the wife of Heber took the peg of the tent, and put the hammer in her hand, and entered to him tranquilly, and hammered in the peg into his cheek, and thrust it through into the ground. And he being startled was enveloped in darkness, and died.
JDG 4:22 And, behold, Barak was pursuing Sisera. And Jael came forth for meeting him, and said to him, Come, and I will show to you the man whom you seek. And he entered with her. And behold, there was Sisera having fallen dead, and the peg in his temple.
JDG 4:23 And God abased in that day Jabin king of Canaan in front of the sons of Israel.
JDG 4:24 And the hand of the sons of Israel went forth going, and hardening against Jabin king of Canaan, until of which time they utterly destroyed him.
JDG 5:1 And Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang in that day, and said,
JDG 5:2 In the rule of chiefs in Israel, in the resolve of people, bless the LORD!
JDG 5:3 Hear, O kings! Give ear, O satraps! I shall sing to the LORD, and I shall strum to the God of Israel.
JDG 5:4 O LORD, in your exodus from Seir, in your departing from out of the field of Edom, the earth was shaken, and indeed the heaven was disturbed, and the clouds dripped water.
JDG 5:5 Mountains shook from the face of the LORD - this Sinai from the face of the LORD God of Israel.
JDG 5:6 In the days of Shamgar son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the ways failed, and they went by short cuts. They went by ways being turned aside.
JDG 5:7 The ones dwelling in Israel failed, they failed until of which time Deborah rose up, that a mother rose up in Israel.
JDG 5:8 They selected new gods; then cities of rulers waged war. Spears appeared for protection of young women, even a spear - forty thousand in Israel.
JDG 5:9 My heart is toward the things ordered to Israel. The mighty of the people - you bless the LORD!
JDG 5:10 O ones mounting upon beasts of burden, upon covered royal chariots, sitting down upon a judgment seat, and going by the way - utter!
JDG 5:11 A sound of the men playing music in the midst of ones making merry. There they shall give righteousness to the LORD. O righteousness, grow in strength in Israel! Then shall go down into his cities the people of the LORD.
JDG 5:12 Awaken, awaken, O Deborah! Awaken, awaken! Speak with an ode! Rise up, O Barak! And take captive your captivity, O son of Abinoam!
JDG 5:13 Then his strength was magnified. O LORD abase to me the ones stronger than me! People Ephraim punished them in the valley. Your brother Benjamin among your peoples.
JDG 5:14 Ephraim rooted them out among Amalek. After you, Benjamin, with your peoples. Of me, Machir, they came down searching out; and from Zebulun growing in strength in chiefdom of the narrative of a scribe.
JDG 5:15 And the rulers were in Issachar with Deborah - even Issachar; so Barak in the valley sent out his footmen in the divisions of Reuben - in great restrictions of heart.
JDG 5:16 Why with me did you settle between the sheepfolds, to listen to whistlings arousing to go through for the ones of Reuben - in great trackings out of heart?
JDG 5:17 Gilead encamped on the other side of the Jordan. And Dan - why does he sojourn in boats? Asher sojourns by the shore of seas, and at his breaches he will encamp.
JDG 5:18 Zebulun - a people berating their soul to death; and Naphtali was upon the heights of a field.
JDG 5:19 Kings came and deployed; then the kings of Canaan waged war in Taanach, at the water of Megiddo; a desire for wealth of silver they did not have.
JDG 5:20 From the heaven they deployed; the stars from their order deployed against Sisera.
JDG 5:21 The rushing stream Kishon cast them out, that rushing stream of antiquity. The rushing stream Kishon. My mighty soul shall trample them.
JDG 5:22 Then they were impeded - the heels of horses were hastened with diligence by his mighty ones.
JDG 5:23 Curse Meroz! said the angel of the LORD. With a curse, curse every one dwelling in it! For they came not to the help of the LORD. The LORD is a helper against warriors.
JDG 5:24 May she be blessed of women - Jael wife of Heber the Kenite; above the women in the tent may she be blessed.
JDG 5:25 He asked her for water, and she gave milk to him in a pan; she drew near butter of strong ones.
JDG 5:26 She stretched out her hand for a peg, and her right for the hammer of a laborer; and she struck Sisera with a hammer - she nailed his head, and she struck, she nailed his temple.
JDG 5:27 In between her feet bowing he fell; he slept between her feet. He bent; he fell in which he bent, there he fell miserably.
JDG 5:28 Through the window the mother of Sisera looked and studied - through the latticed window. Why was his chariot late to arrive? Why did the track of his chariots pass time?
JDG 5:29 Her leading wise ladies answered to her, and she returned her words to herself.
JDG 5:30 Shall they not find him dividing the spoils? Befriending friends to a mighty head ruler. Spoils of dyed things to Sisera - spoils of dyed embroidery dipped. Dyed embroidered works - spoils for his neck.
JDG 5:31 Thus may all your enemies be destroyed, O LORD. And the ones loving him be as the rising of the sun in his power. And the land was quiet forty years.
JDG 6:1 And the sons of Israel acted wickedly before the LORD, and the LORD delivered them over into the hand of Midian for seven years.
JDG 6:2 And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of the presence of Midian the sons of Israel made for themselves havens in the mountains, and in the caves, and in the fortresses.
JDG 6:3 And it came to pass when a man of Israel sowed, that there ascended up Midian and Amalek - even the sons of the east were ascending against them.
JDG 6:4 And they camped by them, and ruined the resources of the land unto the coming unto Gaza. And there was not left behind support for life in Israel, even for the flock, and calf, and donkey.
JDG 6:5 For they and their livestock ascended, and their tents 1they carried about with, and they came as the locusts by multitude. And to them and their camels there was not a number. And they came in the land of Israel to ruin it.
JDG 6:6 And Israel became poor - exceedingly, from the presence of Midian.
JDG 6:7 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD. And it came to pass, when the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD on account of Midian,
JDG 6:8 the LORD sent a man, a prophet, to the sons of Israel. And he said to them, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, I am the one bringing you up from Egypt, and I led you from the house of slavery;
JDG 6:9 and I rescued you from the hand of Egypt, and from the hand of all the ones afflicting you; and I cast them from your face, and I gave to you their land.
JDG 6:10 And I said to you, I am the LORD your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in which you dwell in their land. But you hearkened not to my voice.
JDG 6:11 And an angel of the LORD came and sat under the oak being in Ophrah, of the father of Joash of Ezri. And Gideon his son beat wheat with a rod in a wine-vat, to flee from the face of Midian.
JDG 6:12 And the angel of the LORD appeared to him, and said to him, The LORD is with you mighty in strength.
JDG 6:13 And Gideon said to him, Be it to me, O my Lord, and if the LORD is with us, then why do all these bad things find us? And where are all his wonders, as many as our fathers described to us, saying, Is it not from out of Egypt the LORD led us? And now he thrust us away, and delivered us over into the hand of Midian.
JDG 6:14 And the angel of the LORD looked towards him, and said to him, Go in this your strength, and you shall deliver Israel! Behold, I send you.
JDG 6:15 And Gideon said to him, Be it to me, O my Lord, by what means shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my thousand is humbler in Manasseh, and I am the lesser in the house of my father.
JDG 6:16 And The LORD said to him that, I will be with you, and you shall strike Midian as one man.
JDG 6:17 And Gideon said to him, And if I found favor in your eyes, then you shall give to me a sign that you spoke with me.
JDG 6:18 In no way should you separate from here until my coming to you, and I shall bring my sacrifice, and I shall sacrifice before you. And he said, I am settled until you return.
JDG 6:19 And Gideon entered, and prepared a kid of the goats, and an ephah of unleavened flour. And he put the meats upon the bin, and the broth he poured into an earthen pot, and brought it to him under the oak, and did obeisance.
JDG 6:20 And the angel of the LORD said to him, Take the meats and the unleavened breads, and put them on that rock, and pour out the broth! And he did so.
JDG 6:21 And the angel of the LORD stretched out the tip of the rod in his hand, and touched of the meats, and of the unleavened breads; and fire was lit from out of the rock, and it devoured the meats and the unleavened breads. And the angel of the LORD departed from his eyes.
JDG 6:22 And Gideon knew that it is the angel of the LORD. And Gideon said, Alas, O my Lord, O LORD, for I beheld the angel of the LORD face to face.
JDG 6:23 And the LORD said to him, Peace to you, do not fear, in no way shall you die.
JDG 6:24 And Gideon built there an altar to the LORD. And he called it, Peace of the LORD. Until this day it is still being with Ephratah father of Ezri.
JDG 6:25 And it came to pass in that night, that the LORD said to him, Take the well fed calf of your father, and the second calf of seven years old, and you shall demolish the altar of Baal which is of your father, and the sacred grove by it you shall cut down!
JDG 6:26 And you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, to the one appearing to you upon the top of this mountain of Maoz in the battle array. And you shall take the second calf, and you shall offer whole burnt offerings in the trees of the sacred grove which you cut down.
JDG 6:27 And Gideon took ten men from his menservants, and he did as the LORD spoke to him. And it came to pass that he feared the household of his father, and the men of the city, so as to not act by day, and he acted it by night.
JDG 6:28 And the men of the city rose early in the morning; and behold, the altar of Baal was razed, and the sacred grove by it was cut down; and the well fed calf was offered for a whole burnt offering upon the altar having been built.
JDG 6:29 And each man said to his neighbor, Who did this thing? And they investigated and inquired. And they said, Gideon son of Joash did this thing.
JDG 6:30 And the men of the city said to Joash, Lead out your son, and let him die, for he razed the altar of Baal, and because he cut down the sacred grove by it!
JDG 6:31 And Joash said to the men rising against him, Do you now adjudicate for Baal? or shall you deliver him? Who ever pleaded to him let die in the morning. If he is God, he shall avenge for himself, for he razed his altar.
JDG 6:32 And he called him in that day, Jerubbaal, saying, The court of justice of Baal, for he razed his altar.
JDG 6:33 And all Midian and Amalek and the sons of the east came together at the same place, and passed over, and camped in the valley of Jezreel.
JDG 6:34 And spirit of God empowered Gideon, and he trumped with the horn; and he called for aid to Abi-ezer after him.
JDG 6:35 And he sent messengers to all Manasseh; and he called also himself others after him. And he sent out messengers in Asher, and in Zebulun, and in Naphtali; and they ascended for meeting him.
JDG 6:36 And Gideon said to God, If you deliver Israel by my hand, as you spoke,
JDG 6:37 behold, I fasten the fleece of wool pieces in the threshing-floor. And if dew comes upon the fleece only, and upon all the earth be dryness, then I will know that you shall deliver Israel by my hand, in which manner you spoke.
JDG 6:38 And it came to pass thus. And Gideon rose early on the next day, and he squeezed out the fleece, and dew dripped from the fleece - a full pan of water.
JDG 6:39 And Gideon said to God, Let not your rage be provoked to anger against me, for I will speak still once more, and I will test still once more by the fleece! And let there become yet dryness upon the fleece only, and upon all the ground let there become dew!
JDG 6:40 And God did so in that night. And there was dryness upon the fleece only, and upon all the ground became dew.
JDG 7:1 And Jerubbaal rose early (he is Gideon), and all the people with him, and camped upon the spring of Harod. And the camp of Midian was to him from the north of the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
JDG 7:2 And the LORD said to Gideon, The people with you are many so as for me to not deliver up Midian into their hand, lest at any time Israel should boast instead of me, saying, My hand delivered me.
JDG 7:3 And the LORD said to him, Speak indeed into the ears of the people! saying, Any one fearing and timid, return! And they sallied out from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand - and ten thousand were left behind.
JDG 7:4 And the LORD said to Gideon, Still the people are many, lead them down to the water, and I will try them for you there! And it will be whom ever I should tell to you, This one shall go with you - he shall go with you. And all whom ever I should say that, He shall not go with you - then he shall not go with you.
JDG 7:5 And the people went down to the water. And the LORD said to Gideon, All who ever laps with his tongue of the water as if the dog should lap, you shall stand him alone. And all who ever bends upon his knees to drink, you shall remove him by himself.
JDG 7:6 And was the number of the ones lapping with their tongue three hundred men. And all the remaining people bent upon their knees to drink water.
JDG 7:7 And the LORD said to Gideon, By the three hundred men lapping I shall deliver you, and I will put Midian into your hand. And all the people ran, each man to his place.
JDG 7:8 And they took the provision of the people in their hand, and their horns. And he sent away every man of Israel to his tent, and the three hundred men he kept. And the camp of Midian was underneath him in the valley.
JDG 7:9 And it came to pass in that night, that the LORD said to him, Rise up, go down into the camp, for I delivered it into your hand!
JDG 7:10 And if you should fear to go down by yourself, then you and Phurah your servant go down into the camp.
JDG 7:11 And you should hearken to what they speak, and after these things your hands shall grow in strength, and you shall go down in the camp. And he went down, he and Phurah his servant, into a portion of the fifty companies, of the ones in the camp.
JDG 7:12 And Midian and Amalek and all the sons of the east were encamped in the valley as locust in multitude; and there was not a number to their camels, but they were as if the sand upon the edge of the sea in multitude.
JDG 7:13 And Gideon came. And behold, a man was describing to his neighbor a dream. And he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream. And behold, a loaf of bread of barley was rolling in the camp of Midian, and it came unto the tent of Midian, and it struck it, and it overturned it, and the tent fell.
JDG 7:14 And his neighbor answered and said, This is not other than the broadsword of Gideon son of Joash, a man of Israel. God delivered up Midian into his hand, and all the camp.
JDG 7:15 And it came to pass as Gideon heard the description of the dream, and its interpretation, that he did obeisance to the LORD, and returned into the camp of Israel. And he said, Rise up, for the LORD delivered up into your hands the camp of Midian!
JDG 7:16 And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put horns into the hand of all, and empty water-pitchers, and lamps in the middle of the water-pitchers.
JDG 7:17 And he said to them, Of me you shall watch, and thus you shall do. And behold, I will enter into the midst of the camp, and it will be as whenever I shall act, so shall you act.
JDG 7:18 When I shall trump with the horn, I and all with me, then you shall trump with the horns round about the entire camp, and shall say, To the LORD and to Gideon.
JDG 7:19 And Gideon entered, and the hundred men with him, into the rank of the camp command of the guard of the middle watch; furthermore rising they roused the ones guarding. And they trumped the horns, and shook off the water-pitchers in their hands.
JDG 7:20 And the three companies trumped with the horns, and they broke the water-pitchers, and took the lamps in their left hand, and in their right hand was the horns to trump. And they shouted aloud, A broadsword to the LORD and to Gideon.
JDG 7:21 And they stood each man by himself round about the camp. And they ran around all the camp, and signified by an alarm, and fled.
JDG 7:22 And they trumped the three hundred horns, and the LORD placed every man's sword against his neighbor, even in the whole camp. And the camp fled unto Beth-shittah Zererath, unto the edge of Abel-meholah by Tabbath.
JDG 7:23 And the man of Israel called for aid of Naphtali, and of Asher, and of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
JDG 7:24 And Gideon sent out messengers to every mountain of Ephraim, saying, Go down to meet Midian, and overtake to yourselves the water unto Beth-barah and the Jordan! And every man of Ephraim yelled out, and were first to take the water unto Beth-barah and the Jordan.
JDG 7:25 And they seized the two rulers of Midian - Oreb and Zeeb; and they killed Oreb in Sur, and Zeeb they killed in Jakeb Zeeb. And they pursued Midian. And the head of Oreb, and of Zeeb they brought to Gideon from out of the other side of the Jordan.
JDG 8:1 And a man of Ephraim said to him, What is this thing you do to us, to not call us when you went to deploy against Midian? And they quarreled with him forcefully.
JDG 8:2 And he said to them, What did I do now as concerning you? Is not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the gathering the crops of Abi-ezer?
JDG 8:3 In your hand the LORD delivered up the rulers of Midian - Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do as concerning you? Then their spirit was spared towards them in his speaking with them this word.
JDG 8:4 And Gideon came upon the Jordan, and passed over, and the three hundred men with him, faint-hearted and hungering.
JDG 8:5 And he said to the men of Succoth, Give indeed breads for the nourishment to this people with me, for they hunger! For I pursue after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
JDG 8:6 And the rulers of Succoth said, The hand of Zebah and Zalmunna is not now in your hand, that we shall give to your military breads.
JDG 8:7 And Gideon said, Is it not thus in the giving by the LORD Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, that I will rend in shreds your flesh with the thorn-bushes of the wilderness, and with the Barkenim?
JDG 8:8 And he ascended from there to Penuel, and spoke to them according to these things. And the men of Penuel answered to him in which manner the men of Succoth answered to him.
JDG 8:9 And Gideon said to the men of Penuel, saying, In my returning with peace, I will raze this tower.
JDG 8:10 And Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their camp with them, about fifteen thousand, all the ones being left in all the camp of the sons of the east. And the ones falling were a hundred and twenty thousand men unsheathing the broadsword.
JDG 8:11 And Gideon ascended the way of the ones dwelling in tents from the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and struck the camp - and the camp was secure.
JDG 8:12 And Zebah fled, and Zalmunna. And he pursued after them, and took hold of the two kings of Midian - Zebah and Zalmunna, and all their camp was startled.
JDG 8:13 And Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle from the ascent of Ares.
JDG 8:14 And he seized a servant from the men of Succoth, and questioned him. And he registered for him the rulers of Succoth, and their elders - seventy and seven men.
JDG 8:15 And he came to the rulers of Succoth. And he said to them, Behold, Zebah and Zalmunna, by whom you berated me, saying, Not is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we will give breads to your men fainting.
JDG 8:16 And he took the rulers and the elders of the city into the thorn-bushes of the wilderness, and the Barkenim. And he rent with them the men of Succoth.
JDG 8:17 And the tower of Penuel he razed, and killed the men of the city.
JDG 8:18 And he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner are the men whom you killed in Tabor? And they said, As you, so they are likened to you - likened to them as the appearance of sons of kings.
JDG 8:19 And Gideon said, They are sons of my brothers of my mother. As the LORD lives, if you brought them forth alive, I would not have killed you.
JDG 8:20 And he said to Jether his first-born, In rising up, kill them! And the boy did not unsheathe his sword, for he feared, for he was younger.
JDG 8:21 And Zebah and Zalmunna said, You rise up indeed yourself and meet us! For as a man is, so also his power. And Gideon rose up, and did away with Zebah and Zalmunna, and took the crescents on the necks of their camels.
JDG 8:22 And a man of Israel said to Gideon, Rule among us, you and your son, and the son of your son! For you have delivered us from the hand of Midian.
JDG 8:23 And Gideon said to them, I will not rule you, and my son will not rule among you - the LORD shall rule you.
JDG 8:24 And Gideon said to them, I will ask from you a request, and you give to me - every man an ear-ring of his spoils; (for ear-rings of gold was to them, because they were Ismaelites.)
JDG 8:25 And they said, In giving we will give. And he unfolded his garment, and each man tossed there an ear-ring of his spoils.
JDG 8:26 And was the weight of the ear-rings of gold which he asked for - a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the ornaments of the crescents, and the wrap arounds of the purple garments upon the kings of Midian - even besides the collars of the ones on the necks of their camels.
JDG 8:27 And Gideon made to himself for an ephod, and set it in his city, in Ophrah. And all Israel fornicated after it there. And it became an obstacle to Gideon and his house.
JDG 8:28 And Midian was in remorse before the sons of Israel, and they proceeded not yet to lift their head. And the land was tranquil forty years in the days of Gideon.
JDG 8:29 And Jerubbaal son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
JDG 8:30 And to Gideon there were seventy sons going forth from out of his thighs, for there were many wives to him.
JDG 8:31 And his concubine in Shechem - she bore to him also indeed a son, and put upon him his name - Abimelech.
JDG 8:32 And Gideon the son of Joash died with good grayness of hair. And he was entombed in the burying-place of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abi-ezrites.
JDG 8:33 And it came to pass as Gideon died, that the sons of Israel returned and fornicated after the Baalim, and established to themselves Baal-berith for a covenant, for him to be to them for god.
JDG 8:34 And the sons of Israel did not remember the LORD their God, the one rescuing them from out of the hand of all their enemies round about.
JDG 8:35 And they did not do mercy with the house of Jerubbaal - Gideon, according to all the goodness which he did with Israel.
JDG 9:1 And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went into Shechem to the brothers of his mother. And he spoke to them, and to all the kin of the house of his mother's father, saying,
JDG 9:2 Speak indeed into the ears of all the men of Shechem, saying, Which is best to you, for seventy men to rule you, all the sons of Jerubbaal, or for one man to dominate you? And you should remember that I am of your bone and of your flesh.
JDG 9:3 And the brothers of his mother spoke concerning him in the ears of all of the men of Shechem all these words. And their heart leaned after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
JDG 9:4 And they gave to him seventy pieces of silver from out of the house of Baal-berith. And Abimelech hired for them vain and distraught men. And they went behind him.
JDG 9:5 And he entered to the house of his father at Ophrah, and killed his brothers, the sons of Jerubbaal - seventy men upon one stone. But Jotham the younger son of Jerubbaal was left behind, for he was hidden.
JDG 9:6 And came together all the men of Shechem, and all the house of Millo, and they went and gave reign to Abimelech as king at the acorn tree of the station in Shechem.
JDG 9:7 And they announced to Jotham, and he went, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and called, and said to them, Hear me men of Shechem, and God shall hear you!
JDG 9:8 In going, the trees went forth to anoint for themselves a king. And they said to the olive tree, You reign over us!
JDG 9:9 And the olive tree said to them, Allowing my fatness, which God glorified in me, and men, shall I go to rule over the trees?
JDG 9:10 And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come, you reign over us!
JDG 9:11 And the fig-tree said to them, Allowing my sweetness and my good produce, should I go to rule the trees?
JDG 9:12 And the trees said to the grapevine, Come, you reign over us!
JDG 9:13 And the grapevine said to them, Allowing my wine, the gladness of God, and of the ones of men, should I go to rule over the trees?
JDG 9:14 And all the trees said to the white-thorn shrub, Come, You reign over us!
JDG 9:15 And the white-thorn shrub said to the trees, If in truth you anoint me yourselves to reign over you, come rely in my protection - and if not, may fire come forth from the white-thorn shrub, and may it devour the cedars of Lebanon.
JDG 9:16 And now, if in truth and in soundness you made even Abimelech reign, and if you did well with Jerubbaal, and with his house, and if according to the recompense of his hand you did to him,
JDG 9:17 as my father waged war for you, and tossed his life right opposite, and rescued you from out of the hand of Midian;
JDG 9:18 and you rose up against the house of my father today, and you killed his sons, seventy men upon one stone, and gave reign to Abimelech the son of his maidservant over the men of Shechem, for he is your brother;
JDG 9:19 and if you acted in truth and perfection with Jerubbaal, and his house in this day, may you be glad in Abimelech, and may he be glad also indeed himself in you.
JDG 9:20 If not, may fire come forth from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house Millo; and may fire come forth from the men of Shechem, and from out of the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
JDG 9:21 And Jotham ran away and fled, and went unto Beer. And he dwelt there away from the face of Abimelech his brother.
JDG 9:22 And Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
JDG 9:23 And God sent a bad spirit between Abimelech, and between the men of Shechem. And the men of Shechem annulled allegiance with the house of Abimelech;
JDG 9:24 so as to bring the injustice done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, and for their blood to be put upon Abimelech their brother, the one killing them; and upon the men of Shechem, of the ones strengthening their hands so as to kill his brothers.
JDG 9:25 And the men of Shechem put for him ones lying in wait upon the top of the mountains. And they kidnapped all the ones going along by them in the way. And it was reported to Abimelech.
JDG 9:26 And Gaal the son of Ebed came and his brothers, and they went unto Shechem. And the men of Shechem relied in him.
JDG 9:27 And they went forth into the field, and gathered the vintage of their vineyards, and they treaded, and they made a dance, and entered into the house of their god, and ate, and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
JDG 9:28 And Gaal son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is the son of Shechem, that we shall serve to him? Is he not the son of Jerubbaal, and Zebul his overseer, his manservant with the men of Hamor, father of Shechem? And why is it that we shall serve to him ourselves?
JDG 9:29 And if any should give this people into my hand, then I shall remove Abimelech. And I shall say to Abimelech, Multiply your force, and come forth!
JDG 9:30 And Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal son of Ebed, and he was enraged in anger.
JDG 9:31 And he sent messengers to Abimelech with bribes, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed, and his brothers have come unto Shechem; and know, they assault the city against you.
JDG 9:32 And now rise up at night, you and the people with you, and lie in wait in the field!
JDG 9:33 And it will be in the morning, together with the rising of the sun, that you shall rise early and stretch out against the city. And behold, when he and the people with him go forth against you, that you shall do to him just as your hand should find opportunity.
JDG 9:34 And Abimelech rose up, and all the people with him at night. And they laid in wait at Shechem - four companies.
JDG 9:35 And Gaal son of Ebed came forth, and stood at the door of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all the people with him, from the ambush.
JDG 9:36 And Gaal son of Ebed saw the people. And he said to Zebul, Behold, a people coming from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said to him, The shadow of the mountains you see as men.
JDG 9:37 And Gaal proceeded still to speak, and said, Behold, a people coming down as a sea from the part next to the navel of the earth, and one company arrives from the way of the Oak of the Seers.
JDG 9:38 And Zebul said to him, Where is your mouth, the one saying, Who is Abimelech, that we shall serve to him? Is this not the people whom you treated with contempt? Go forth indeed now and wage war with him!
JDG 9:39 And Gaal went forth from the presence of the men of Shechem, and made war against Abimelech.
JDG 9:40 And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled from his face. And there fell slain many unto the doors of the city.
JDG 9:41 And Abimelech settled in Arumah. And Zebul cast out Gaal and his brothers, so as to not live in Shechem.
JDG 9:42 And it came to pass in the next day, and came forth the people into the plain, and reported to Abimelech.
JDG 9:43 And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid in wait in the field, and watched, and, behold, a people came forth from out of the city; and he rose up against them, and struck them.
JDG 9:44 And Abimelech, and the companies with him, stretched out and stood by the door of the gate of the city. And the other two companies poured out upon all the ones in the field, and he struck them.
JDG 9:45 And Abimelech made war against the city that entire day. And they overtook the city; and the people in it they killed. And he demolished the city, and sowed it with salt.
JDG 9:46 And all the men of the tower of Shechem heard, and they entered into the fortress of the house of Bethel-berith.
JDG 9:47 And it was announced to Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were brought together.
JDG 9:48 And Abimelech ascended into mount Zalmon, he and all the people with him. And Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and cut a load of wood, and took it, and put it upon his shoulders. And he said to the people with him, What you see me doing, quickly, you do as also I!
JDG 9:49 And they felled wood, and indeed to them all each was a load. And they lifted, and went after Abimelech, and placed the wood at the fortress, and set fire to them at the fortress with fire. And all died - the men of the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women.
JDG 9:50 And Abimelech went unto Thebez, and besieged it, and first took it.
JDG 9:51 And there was a strong tower in the midst of the city. And fled there all the men, and the women, and all the leaders of the city. And they shut up themselves, and ascended upon the roof of the tower.
JDG 9:52 And Abimelech came unto the tower, and they subdued it by war. And Abimelech approached unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
JDG 9:53 And a woman tossed one piece of millstone upon the head of Abimelech, and it fractured his skull.
JDG 9:54 And he yelled out quickly to the servant lifting his weapons. And he said to him, Unsheathe my broadsword and kill me, lest at any time they should say that, A woman killed him! And his servant stabbed him, and he died.
JDG 9:55 And each man of Israel saw that Abimelech died, and each man departed to his place.
JDG 9:56 And God returned the evil of Abimelech, which he did to his father by killing his seventy brothers.
JDG 9:57 And all the evil of the men of Shechem, God returned on their own head. And came upon them the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
JDG 10:1 And rose up after Abimelech to deliver Israel, Tola son of Phua, son of his uncle, a man of Issachar. And he dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim.
JDG 10:2 And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was entombed in Shamir.
JDG 10:3 And rose up after him Jair the Gileadite; and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
JDG 10:4 And there were born to him thirty sons mounted upon thirty foals. And thirty cities were his. And they called them, Properties of Jair until this day - the ones which are in the land of Gilead.
JDG 10:5 And Jair died, and was entombed in Camon.
JDG 10:6 And the sons of Israel proceeded to do the wicked thing before the LORD. And they served to the Baalim, and to the Ashtaroths, and to the gods of Syria, and to the gods of Sidon, and to the gods of Moab, and to the gods of the sons of Ammon, and to the gods of the Philistines. And they abandoned the LORD, and did not serve to him.
JDG 10:7 And the LORD was enraged in anger against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the sons of Ammon.
JDG 10:8 And they disintegrated and crushed the sons of Israel in that year - eighteen years, all of the sons of Israel on the other side of the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, in Gilead.
JDG 10:9 And the sons of Ammon passed over the Jordan to wage war even against Judah and Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim. And they afflicted the sons of Israel exceedingly.
JDG 10:10 And the sons of Israel cried out to the LORD, saying, We sinned against you, for we abandoned our God, and we served to the Baalim.
JDG 10:11 And the LORD said to the sons of Israel, Is it not the Egyptians, and the Amorites, and the sons of Ammon, and Moab, and the Philistines,
JDG 10:12 and Sidonians, and Amalek, and Canaan that squeeze you out? And you cried out to me, and I delivered you from out of their hand.
JDG 10:13 And you abandoned me, and served other gods. On account of this I will not proceed to deliver you.
JDG 10:14 Proceed and yell to the gods whom you chose for yourselves, and let them deliver you in the time of your affliction!
JDG 10:15 And the sons of Israel said to the LORD, We sinned, do to us according to all whatever as much as should be pleasing before you, only rescue us in this day!
JDG 10:16 And they removed the alien gods from their midst, and served to the LORD. And he was faint-hearted over the toil of Israel.
JDG 10:17 And there ascended up the sons of Ammon, and camped in Gilead. And the sons of Israel came forth and camped in Mizpeh.
JDG 10:18 And the people and the rulers of Gilead said each man to his neighbor, Who is the man who shall begin to wage war with the sons of Ammon? for he shall be head to all the ones dwelling in Gilead?
JDG 11:1 And Jephthah the Gileadite was mighty in strength. And he was the son of a harlot woman. And she bore Jephthah to Gilead.
JDG 11:2 And the wife bore to Gilead himself sons. And the sons of the woman matured, and they cast out Jephthah, and said to him, You shall not inherit among the house of our father, for you are a son of a mistress woman.
JDG 11:3 And Jephthah ran away from the face of his brothers, and dwelt in the land of Tob. And cheap men collected together with Jephthah, and went forth together with him.
JDG 11:4 And it came to pass after some days, that the sons of Ammon waged war against Israel. And it came to pass when the sons of Ammon waged war with Israel,
JDG 11:5 that the elders of Gilead went forth to take Jephthah from the land of Tob.
JDG 11:6 And they said to Jephthah, Come, and you will be to us as a leader, for we shall make war with the sons of Ammon.
JDG 11:7 And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Is it not that you detest me, and cast me from out of the house of my father, and sent me from you? And why is it that you came to me now when you are afflicted?
JDG 11:8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, Not so, now we gathered together to you, and you shall go with us, and we shall wage war against the sons of Ammon, and you will be to us as head to all the ones dwelling in Gilead.
JDG 11:9 And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, If you return me to yourselves to make war against the sons of Ammon, and the LORD should deliver them before me, I will be to you for head.
JDG 11:10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, Let the LORD be the one hearing between us, if not according to your word thus we will do!
JDG 11:11 And Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead. And the people established him over them as head, and for leader. And Jephthah spoke all his words before the LORD in Mizpeh.
JDG 11:12 And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the sons of Ammon, saying, What is it to me and to you, that you come to me to wage war in my land?
JDG 11:13 And the king of the sons of Ammon said to the messengers of Jephthath, Because Israel took my land in their ascending from out of Egypt, from Arnon unto Jabok, and unto the Jordan. And now return them with peace!
JDG 11:14 And Jephthah again added, and he sent messengers to the king of the sons of Ammon.
JDG 11:15 And they said to him, Thus says Jephthah, Israel did not take the land of Moab, and the land of the sons of Ammon.
JDG 11:16 In their ascending from out of Egypt, it is that Israel went in the wilderness unto the red sea, and came to Kadesh.
JDG 11:17 And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, I shall go through your land. And the king of Edom hearkened not, and indeed to the king of Moab Israel sent, and he would not, and Israel settled in Kadesh.
JDG 11:18 And Israel went through in the wilderness, and encircled the land of Edom and the land of Moab. And it arrived according to the rising of the sun of the land of Moab, and camped on the other side of Arnon, and did not enter into the border of Moab.
JDG 11:19 And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon. And Israel said to him, I shall go by through your land unto my place.
JDG 11:20 And Sihon did not want Israel to go through his borders. And Sihon gathered all his people, and they camped at Jahaz, and he waged war with Israel.
JDG 11:21 And the LORD God of Israel delivered up Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel. And they struck them, and Israel inherited all the land of the Amorites dwelling in that land.
JDG 11:22 And Israel inherited all the border of the Amorites, from Arnon and unto the Jabok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
JDG 11:23 And now the LORD God of Israel lifted away the Amorite from the face of his people Israel. And you - shall you inherit it?
JDG 11:24 Is it not that as much as Chemosh your god allots to you, them you will inherit? And all as much as the LORD our God inherits from your person we shall inherit them.
JDG 11:25 And now are you any better than Balak son of Sephor king of Moab? Did he not with battle do combat with Israel, or by war wage war with them?
JDG 11:26 In the living of Israel in Heshbon, and in her daughter cities, and in Aroer, and in her daughter cities, and in all the cities by the Jordan for three hundred years - Why is it that you did not rescue them in that time?
JDG 11:27 And I sinned not against you, but you do wickedness with me to wage war against me. May the LORD judge, the one judging today, between the sons of Israel and between the sons of Ammon.
JDG 11:28 And the king of the sons of Ammon hearkened not to the words of Jephthah which he sent to him.
JDG 11:29 And spirit of the LORD became upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and he passed over the height of Gilead, and from the height of Gilead to the other side of the sons of Ammon.
JDG 11:30 And Jephthah vowed a vow to the LORD, and said, If by delivering up you should deliver up the sons of Ammon in my hand,
JDG 11:31 then it will be concerning the one going forth, who ever might come from the doors of my house for meeting me in my returning in peace from the sons of Ammon, that it will be to the LORD, and I will offer him a whole burnt offering.
JDG 11:32 And Jephthah passed over to the sons of Ammon to wage war against them. And the LORD delivered them into his hand.
JDG 11:33 And he struck them from Aroer, and unto the coming to Minnith - twenty cities; and unto the Abel vineyards, with an exceedingly great beating. And the sons of Ammon showed respect in front of the sons of Israel.
JDG 11:34 And Jephthah came to Mizpeh to his house, and behold, his daughter went forth for meeting him with tambourines and dancers, and she was an only child. And there was not to him a son or daughter besides her.
JDG 11:35 And it happened when he beheld her, that he tore his garments, and said, Alas my daughter, you impede me, for you became an impediment in my eyes, and I opened my mouth concerning you to the LORD, and I shall not be able to turn back.
JDG 11:36 And she said to him, If about me you opened your mouth to the LORD, let him do to me in which manner it came forth from out of your mouth, because the LORD did vengeance for you on your enemies, of the sons of Ammon.
JDG 11:37 And she said to her father, And do to me this thing! Allow me two months, and I shall go and shall come down upon the mountains, and I shall weep over the tokens of my virginity - I and my female companions.
JDG 11:38 And he said, Go! And he sent her out for two months. And she went, her and her female companions. And they wept over the tokens of her virginity upon the mountains.
JDG 11:39 And it came to pass after the end of the two months that she returned to her father. And Jephthah completed his vow which he vowed. And she did not know a man. And it became an order in Israel,
JDG 11:40 from days unto days the daughters of Israel go with one another to wail over the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
JDG 12:1 And the sons of Ephraim gathered together, and came to Zaphon, and said to Jephthah, Why is it that you went to wage war against the sons of Ammon, and you did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house over you with fire.
JDG 12:2 And Jephthah said to them, I was a man pleading, and my people, and the sons of Ammon humbled me exceedingly, and I yelled out to you, and you did not deliver me from out of their hand.
JDG 12:3 And I saw that there was not one delivering, and I put my life in my hand, and I passed over to the sons of Ammon, and the LORD delivered them over into my hand. And why did you ascend against me in this day to wage war against me?
JDG 12:4 And Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and waged war against Ephraim. And the men of Gilead struck Ephraim; for the men coming through safe of Ephraim said, You are Gilead in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh.
JDG 12:5 And Gilead was first to take the ford of the Jordan of Ephraim. And it came to pass when the ones coming through safe of Ephraim said to them, We should pass over indeed, that the men of Gilead said to them, Are you not from out of Ephraim? And they said, We are not.
JDG 12:6 Then they said to them, Say indeed, Stachys! And if they were not straightly able to speak thus, then they would take hold of them, and slay them at the ford of the Jordan. And they that fell from Ephraim in that time were forty and two thousand.
JDG 12:7 And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was entombed in his city Gilead.
JDG 12:8 And Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel after him.
JDG 12:9 And there were to him thirty sons, and thirty daughters being sent out, and he brought in thirty wives for his sons from outside. And he judged Israel seven years.
JDG 12:10 And Ibzan died, and was entombed in Beth-lehem.
JDG 12:11 And Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel after him; and he judged Israel ten years.
JDG 12:12 And Elon the Zebulunite died, and was entombed in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun.
JDG 12:13 And Abdon son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel after him.
JDG 12:14 And there were to him forty sons, and thirty sons of his sons being mounted upon seventy foals. And he judged Israel eight years.
JDG 12:15 And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and he was entombed in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mountain of Amalek.
JDG 13:1 And the sons of Israel proceeded still to act wickedly before the LORD, and the LORD delivered them into the hand of the Philistines - forty years.
JDG 13:2 And there was one man from Zorah, from the tribe of Dan, and the name to him was Manoah; and his wife was sterile, and had not given birth.
JDG 13:3 And an angel of the LORD appeared to the woman, and said to her, Behold indeed, you are sterile, and have not borne; but you shall have one in the womb, and shall bear a son.
JDG 13:4 And now guard and do not drink wine and liquor, and do not eat any unclean thing!
JDG 13:5 For behold, you have one in the womb, and you shall bear a son, and an iron razor shall not ascend upon his head, for the boy will be a Nazarite to God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel from out of the hand of the Philistines.
JDG 13:6 And the woman went in, and spoke to her husband, saying, A man of God came to me, and his appearance was as the appearance of an angel of God - very prominent. And I did not ask him from what place he is, and his name he did not report to me.
JDG 13:7 And he said to me, Behold, you have one in the womb, and you shall give birth to a son. And now, do not drink wine and strong drink, and do not eat any uncleanness, for the boy will be a Nazarite of God from the womb, until the day of his death!
JDG 13:8 And Manoah besought of the LORD. And he said, Be to me, O LORD, the man of God whom you sent, let him come yet once more to us and enlighten us what we should do with the boy to be born!
JDG 13:9 And God heeded the voice of Manoah. And the angel of God came again to the woman, and she sat in the field, and Manoah her husband was not with her.
JDG 13:10 And the woman hastened, and ran, and reported to her husband, and said to him, Behold, the man has appeared to me, coming in this day to me.
JDG 13:11 And Manoah rose up and went after his wife. And he came to the man, and he said to him, Are you the man speaking to the woman? And the angel said, I am.
JDG 13:12 And Manoah said, Now, your word going through, what will be the distinguishing manner of the boy, and of his works?
JDG 13:13 And the angel of the LORD said to Manoah, Of all which I spoke to the woman, let her guard!
JDG 13:14 From every thing which goes forth from out of the grapevine she shall not eat, and wine and liquor she shall not drink, and every thing unclean she shall not eat - all as much as I gave charge to her, let her guard!
JDG 13:15 And Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, We should indeed force you to stay, and shall prepare before you a kid of the goats.
JDG 13:16 And the angel of the LORD said to Manoah, If she should hold me I will not eat from your breads. And if you should offer a whole burnt offering, you shall offer it to the LORD. For Manoah did not know that he was an angel of the LORD.
JDG 13:17 And Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, What is the name to you, that whenever your word should come to pass that we should glorify you?
JDG 13:18 And the angel of the LORD said to him, Why is this you ask of my name, for it is Wonderful?
JDG 13:19 And Manoah took the kid of the goats, and the sacrifice offering, and he offered upon the rock to the LORD, to the wonderful being. And Manoah and his wife were viewing.
JDG 13:20 And it happened in the flame ascending on top of the altar unto the heaven, that the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife were viewing, and they fell upon their face upon the ground.
JDG 13:21 And the angel of the LORD did not proceed any longer to appear to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that this was an angel of the LORD.
JDG 13:22 And Manoah said to his wife, To death we shall die, for we have looked at God.
JDG 13:23 And his wife said to him, If the LORD wanted to kill us, he would not have received from our hand a whole burnt offering and a sacrifice offering, and he would not have enlightened us all these things, even as this time, and he would not have made these things audible to us.
JDG 13:24 And the woman bore a son, and she called his name Samson. And the boy grew, and the LORD blessed him.
JDG 13:25 And spirit of the LORD began to go forth with him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and between Eshtaol.
JDG 14:1 And Samson went down unto Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnath from the daughters of the Philistines.
JDG 14:2 And he ascended, and reported to his father and to his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath from the daughters of the Philistines. And now take her to me for wife!
JDG 14:3 And his father said to him, and his mother, Is there not a woman of the daughters of your brothers and among all my people, that you should go to take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said to his father, Take this one for me, for she pleases in my eyes!
JDG 14:4 And his father and his mother knew not that it is from the LORD, that he required recompense of the Philistines. And in that time the Philistines dominated the sons of Israel.
JDG 14:5 And Samson went down, and his father and his mother unto Timnath. And he came to the vineyards of Timnath. And behold, a cub of a lion was roaring in meeting him.
JDG 14:6 And spirit of the LORD straightened upon him, and he tore it apart as a kid of the goats, and nothing was in his hand. And he did not report to his father and to his mother what he did.
JDG 14:7 And they went down and spoke to the woman, and she was pleasing before Samson.
JDG 14:8 And he returned after some days to take her, and he turned aside to behold the carcass of the lion - and, behold, a swarm as of an apiary of bees was in the mouth of the lion, and honey.
JDG 14:9 And he took it into his mouth, and went forth going and eating. And he went to his father and to his mother, and he gave to them, and they ate - and he did not announce to them that he took the honey from the manner of the lion.
JDG 14:10 And his father went down to the woman. And Samson prepared there a banquet for seven days - for thus the young men did.
JDG 14:11 And it came to pass in their fearing him, that they posted in front to him thirty companions, and they were with him.
JDG 14:12 And Samson said to them, I will propound indeed to you a riddle; and if by reporting you should report it to me in the seven days of the banquet, and you should find the solution, I will give to you thirty pieces of fine linen, and thirty robes of clothes.
JDG 14:13 And if you should not be able to report the solution to me, then you shall give to me yourselves thirty pieces of fine linen, and thirty robes of clothes. And they said to him, Propound your riddle, and we shall hear it!
JDG 14:14 And he said to them, From the one eating came forth food, and from the strong came forth sweetness. And they were not able to explain the riddle for three days.
JDG 14:15 And it came to pass in the seventh day, and they spoke to the wife of Samson, saying, Deceive indeed your husband! And let him explain to you the riddle, lest at any time we should burn you and the house of your father by fire - or did you call us to make us poor?
JDG 14:16 And the wife of Samson wept to him, and said to him, You detest me, and do not love me, because the riddle which you propounded to the sons of my people, you did not explain even it to me. And Samson said to her, Behold, to my father and to my mother I did not report it, and should I report to you?
JDG 14:17 And she wept upon him for the seven days in which the banquet was to them. And it came to pass on the seventh day he explained to her, for she troubled him. And she reported to the sons of her people.
JDG 14:18 And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun going down, What is sweeter than honey, and what is stronger than a lion? And Samson said to them, Unless you plowed by my heifer, you would not have found my riddle.
JDG 14:19 And spirit of the LORD straightened upon him, and he went down unto Ashkelon, and smote from there thirty men, and took their robes, and gave them to the ones explaining the riddle. And Samson was enraged in anger, and he ascended into the house of his father.
JDG 14:20 And the wife of Samson lived with his groomsman who was his companion.
JDG 15:1 And it came to pass after some days, at the days of the wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife, carrying a kid of the goats. And he said, I shall enter to my wife into the bedroom. But her father would not grant him to enter.
JDG 15:2 And her father said, In saying, I said that, By detesting you detested her; and I gave her to your companion. Behold is not her younger sister better than she? Let her be to you instead of her!
JDG 15:3 And Samson said to him, I am innocent this once concerning the Philistines, that I myself should do evils with you.
JDG 15:4 And Samson went and seized three hundred foxes, and took lamps, and tied them together tail to tail, and put one lamp between the two tails, and guided them.
JDG 15:5 And he kindled fire in the lamps, and he sent them out in the ears of wheat of the Philistines. And he burned the ears of wheat from the threshing-floor, and unto the straight standing ears of wheat, and unto the vineyard, and olive orchards.
JDG 15:6 And the Philistines said, Who did these things? And they said, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife, and gave her to his male companion. And the Philistines ascended up, and burnt her and the house of her father by fire.
JDG 15:7 And Samson said to them, Since you should do thus, I shall not think well, but I will execute my vengeance against each one of you.
JDG 15:8 And he struck them shank unto thigh with a great beating. And he went down and sat at the hole in the rock of Etam.
JDG 15:9 And the Philistines ascended and camped in Judah, and cast forth about Lehi.
JDG 15:10 And every man of Judah said to them, Why have you ascended against us? And the Philistines said, We ascended to tie up Samson, and to do to him in which manner he did to us.
JDG 15:11 And three thousand men of Judah went down unto the hole in the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, Do you not behold that the Philistines dominate us? Then why did you do these things to us? And Samson said to them, In which manner they did to me, so I did to them.
JDG 15:12 And they said to him, We came down to tie you, to deliver you up into the hands of the Philistines. And Samson said to them, Swear to me by an oath to not kill me yourselves, that lest at any time you should meet up with me yourselves.
JDG 15:13 And they swore by an oath to him, saying, No; but only by a bond will we tie you, for we should deliver you up into their hands - but to death we will not kill you. And they tied him with two new ropes, and bore him from the rock.
JDG 15:14 And he came unto Jaw. And the Philistines shouted, and ran to meet him. And spirit of the LORD straightened upon him, and the ropes in his arms became as hemp when fire smells. And the bonds melted away from his arms.
JDG 15:15 And he found a jaw bone of a donkey having been tossed. And he stretched out his hand, and took it, and struck with it a thousand men.
JDG 15:16 And Samson said, By the jaw bone of a donkey, in wiping away, I wiped them away, for by the jaw bone of the donkey I struck a thousand men.
JDG 15:17 And it came to pass when he finished speaking, that he tossed the jaw bone from his hand, and called that place, Removal of the Jaw.
JDG 15:18 And he thirsted exceedingly, and yelled to the LORD, and said, You gave by the hand of your servant this great deliverance, and now shall I die in thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
JDG 15:19 And God opened the gash, the one in Jaw, and there came forth from out of it waters. And he drank, and his spirit was restored, and he lived. Because of this its name is called, Spring of the Calling Upon, which is in Jaw until this day.
JDG 15:20 And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
JDG 16:1 And Samson went into Gaza, and saw there a woman harlot, and entered to her.
JDG 16:2 And it was reported to the Gazites, saying, Samson comes here. And they encircled, and laid in wait for him the entire night at the gate of the city. And they were silent the entire night, saying, We should wait until light shows through at dawn, and we should kill him.
JDG 16:3 And Samson went to bed until midnight. And he rose up at half the night, and he took hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two doorposts, and carried them with the bar, and put them upon his shoulders, and bore them upon the top of the mountain which is at the face of Hebron.
JDG 16:4 And it came to pass after this, that he loved a woman by the rushing stream Sorek, and her name was Delilah.
JDG 16:5 And the satraps of the Philistines ascended to her, and said to her, Beguile him, and see by what means his great strength is, and by what means we shall be able to prevail against him, and tie him so as to humble him. And we will give to you by man a thousand and a hundred pieces of silver.
JDG 16:6 And Delilah said to Samson, Explain indeed to me! By what means your great strength is, and by what means you shall be tied so as to humble you?
JDG 16:7 And Samson said to her, If they should tie me with seven wet strings of a bow that are not ruined, then I will be weakened, and I will be as one of the men.
JDG 16:8 And the satraps of the Philistines brought to her seven wet strings of a bow not ruined. And she tied him with them.
JDG 16:9 And the ambush sat down for him in the storeroom. And she said to him, The Philistines are upon you, Samson. And he tore up the strings of the bow in which manner one pulls apart yarn of hemp in its smelling of fire - and his strength was not made known.
JDG 16:10 And Delilah said to Samson, Behold, you misled me, and you spoke to me by lying. Now then, report to me! By what you shall be tied?
JDG 16:11 And he said to her, If by binding, they should tie me by new ropes which were not used in their work, then I shall be weak, and I will be as one of the men.
JDG 16:12 And Delilah took new ropes, and tied him with them, and said to him, The Philistines are upon you, Samson. And the ambush sat in the storeroom. And he pulled them from his arms as thread.
JDG 16:13 And Delilah said to Samson, Until now you misled me, and spoke to me lying. Announce indeed to me! By what you shall be tied? And he said to her, If you should weave the seven strands of hair of my head with the warp, and hammer with the peg into the wall, then I will be weak as one of the men.
JDG 16:14 And it came to pass in his going to sleep, that Delilah took the seven strands of his head, and weaved them with the warp, and pinned them to the peg into the wall. And she said to him, The Philistines are upon you, Samson. And he was awakened from his sleep, and he pulled out the pegs in the woven work from out of the wall, and the warp; for he knew not his strength.
JDG 16:15 And Delilah said to him, How do you say, I love you, and your heart is not with me? This third time you misled me, and did not report to me by what means your great strength is.
JDG 16:16 And it came to pass when she worked him by her words the whole night, and troubled him, that he was faint-hearted unto death.
JDG 16:17 And he reported to her all the things from his heart. And said to her, A razor shall not ascend upon my head; for I am a Nazarite of God from out of the belly of my mother; and if I should be shaven, my strength shall leave from me, and I shall be weakened, and I will be as all the men.
JDG 16:18 And Delilah knew that he reported to her all his heart. And she sent and called the satraps of the Philistines, saying, Ascend this once, for he reported to me all his heart! And they ascended up to her - all the satraps of the Philistines, and they offered the silver in her hands.
JDG 16:19 And she rested him between her knees; And she called the barber, and he shaved the seven curls of his head; and it began to humble him, and his strength left from him.
JDG 16:20 And Delilah said, The Philistines are upon you, Samson. And he was awakened from out of his sleep. And he said, I shall go forth, and I shall do as continually before, and I shall brush myself off. And he did not know that the LORD left from him.
JDG 16:21 And the Philistines took hold of him, and gouged out his eyes, and carried him unto Gaza. And they bound him with shackles of brass; and he was grinding in the house of the prison.
JDG 16:22 And the hair of his head began to grow, as he was shaven.
JDG 16:23 And the rulers of the Philistines came together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to be merry. And they said, Our god delivered into our hand Samson our enemy.
JDG 16:24 And the people saw him, and they praised their god, for they said, Our god delivered our enemy into our hands - the one making our land quite desolate, who multiplied our slain.
JDG 16:25 And it came to pass when their heart was feeling good, that they said, Call Samson from out of the house of the prison, and let him play before us! And they called Samson from out of the house of the jail, and they sported with him. And they stood him in between the two posts.
JDG 16:26 And Samson said to the young man leading him by the hand, Allow me! And I should handle the monumental pillars upon which the house stays upon them.
JDG 16:27 And the house was full of the men and women; and all the satraps of the Philistines were there. And upon the roof were about three thousand men and women, looking at and mocking Samson.
JDG 16:28 And Samson yelled to the LORD, and said, O LORD, O LORD, remember me, and strengthen me indeed besides! And this once, O God, and I will avenge one vengeance against the Philistines for my two eyes.
JDG 16:29 And Samson took hold of the two posts in the midst upon which the house stood, and he stayed against them, one at his right hand, and one at at his left.
JDG 16:30 And Samson said, Let my soul die with the Philistines. And he leaned in strength, and the house fell upon the satraps, and upon all the people in it. And the ones having died whom Samson put to death were in his death many over whom he put to death in his life.
JDG 16:31 And his brothers went down, and all the house of his father, and took him, and ascended, and entombed him between Zorah and between Esthaol in the burying-place of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
JDG 17:1 And there was a man of mount Ephraim, and his name was Micah.
JDG 17:2 And he said to his mother, The thousand and hundred pieces of silver seized from you, and you adjured, and said it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Being blessed is my son in the LORD.
JDG 17:3 And he gave back the thousand and hundred pieces of silver to his mother. And his mother said, By sanctification, I sanctified the silver to the LORD out of my hand alone, to make a carving and molten image - and now I will give it back to you.
JDG 17:4 And he gave back the silver to his mother. Then his mother took two hundred of the pieces of silver, and gave them to the smelterer. And he made it into a carving and molten image. And it was in the house of Micah.
JDG 17:5 And the house of Micah was to him a house of a god. And he made an ephod and teraphim, and filled up the hand of one of his sons, and he became to him for a priest.
JDG 17:6 In those days there was not a king in Israel - a man did upright in his own eyes.
JDG 17:7 And there was a young man from out of Beth-lehem Judah from the kin of Judah, and he was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
JDG 17:8 And the man went from the city of Beth-lehem Judah to sojourn where ever he should find. And he came unto mount Ephraim, and unto the house of Micah, making his way.
JDG 17:9 And Micah said to him, From what place come you? And he said to him, I am a Levite from Beth-lehem Judah, and I go to sojourn where ever I should find.
JDG 17:10 And Micah said to him, Sit down with me, and become to me as a father and as priest, and I will give to you ten silver pieces for days, and a pair of clothes, and the things for your means of life.
JDG 17:11 And the Levite went, and began to sojourn by the man. And the young man became to him as one of his sons.
JDG 17:12 And Micah filled up the hand of the Levite, and the young man became to him for a priest - and he was in the house of Micah.
JDG 17:13 And Micah said, Now I know that the LORD did good to me, for the Levite became to me for a priest.
JDG 18:1 In those days there was not a king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of Dan sought for itself an inheritance to dwell; for an inheritance did not fall in to it until that day in the midst of the tribes of Israel.
JDG 18:2 And the sons of Dan sent out from their peoples five men from their part, men of sons of power, from Zorah and Esthaol, to survey the land, and to track it. And they said to them, Go, and search out the land! And they came unto mount Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, and they rested there.
JDG 18:3 In their being by the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite, and they turned aside there. And they said to him, Who brought you here? And what do you do here? And what is it here?
JDG 18:4 And he said to them, Micah did so and so with me, and hired me, and I became to him for a priest.
JDG 18:5 And they said to him, Ask indeed to God, that we will know if our way greatly prospers which we go by it!
JDG 18:6 And the priest said to them, Go in peace before the LORD - your way by which you go by it!
JDG 18:7 And the five men went, and came into Laish. And they saw the people in it dwelling in hope as the amalgamation of the Sidonians, being tranquil in hope, and not being able to speak a word in the land, for they are far from Sidon, and there was not a word to them with Syria.
JDG 18:8 And the five men came to their brothers in Zorah and in Esthaol. And their brothers said to them, Why do you sit down?
JDG 18:9 And they said, Rise up! for we should ascend against them, for we saw the land, and behold, it is exceedingly good; and you are silent - you should not be reluctant to go, and to enter to inherit the land.
JDG 18:10 When ever you should enter, you shall come to a people being secure, and the land of broad space, for God delivered it over into your hand. A place where there is not any deficiency there of a thing as much as is on the earth.
JDG 18:11 And they departed from there, from the kin of Dan, from Zorah and from Esthaol - six hundred men being girded with weapons for battle.
JDG 18:12 And they ascended and camped in Kirjath-jearim, in Judah. On account of this that place was called, Camp of Dan until this day. Behold, it is behind Kirjath-jearim.
JDG 18:13 And they went from there unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
JDG 18:14 And the five men going to survey the land of Laish responded, and said to their brothers, Did you know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a carved image, and a molten image? And now know what you shall do!
JDG 18:15 And they turned aside there, and entered into the house of the young man - the Levite, into the house of Micah, and asked him for peace.
JDG 18:16 And the six hundred men being girded with weapons for their warfare, being set up by the door of the gatehouse, were the ones from the sons of Dan.
JDG 18:17 Then the five men going to survey the land ascended; and coming there, they took the carved image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest was set up by the door of the gatehouse, and the six hundred men were girded with weapons for warfare.
JDG 18:18 And when these entered into the house of Micah, and took the carved image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; that the priest said to them, What do you do?
JDG 18:19 And they said to him, Be silent, place your hand over your mouth, and come with us, and you will be to us for a father and for a priest! Is it not better for you to be a priest of the house of one man, or for you to be priest of a tribe and kin in Israel?
JDG 18:20 And it was good to the heart of the priest. And he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the carved image, and the molten image, and entered into the midst of the people.
JDG 18:21 And they turned and went forth, and put the children, and the property, and the load before them.
JDG 18:22 And they were far from the house of Micah, and behold, Micah and the men in the houses, near the house of Micah, cried out, and overtook the sons of Dan.
JDG 18:23 And they yelled to the sons of Dan. And the sons of Dan turned their faces, and said to Micah, What is it to you that you cry out?
JDG 18:24 And he said, The gods which I made you took, and the priest, and you departed. And what is there to me still? And what is this you say to me, Why is this that you cry out?
JDG 18:25 And the sons of Dan said to him, Your voice should not be heard with us, lest at any time men in severe pain of soul should encounter you, and you shall add your life, and the life of your household.
JDG 18:26 And the sons of Dan went on their way. And Micah saw that they are too mighty for him, and he turned aside and returned to his house.
JDG 18:27 And they took as much as Micah made, and the priest who was with him, and they went unto Laish, upon a people being tranquil, and being secure. And they struck them by the mouth of the broadsword, and the city they burned by fire.
JDG 18:28 And there is not the one for rescuing, for it is far from Sidon, and communication is not to them with man; and it is in the valley which is of the house of Rehob. And they built up the city, and dwelt in it.
JDG 18:29 And they called the name of the city Dan, according to the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel. And the name to the city formerly was Laish.
JDG 18:30 And the sons of Dan set up for themselves the carved image. And Jonathan, son of Gershom, son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of the displacement of the land.
JDG 18:31 And they themselves stationed the carved image Micah made all the days - as many as the house of God was in Shiloh. And it came to pass in those days there was not a king in Israel.
JDG 19:1 And there was a man, a Levite, sojourning on the sides of mount Ephraim. And he took to himself a woman concubine from Beth-lehem Judah.
JDG 19:2 And his concubine provoked him to anger, and she went forth from him unto the house of her father in Beth-lehem Judah, and was there the days of four months.
JDG 19:3 And her husband rose up, and went after her, to speak unto her heart, to reconcile her; and his servant was with him, and a pair of beasts of burden. And he went unto the house of her father. And the father of the young woman beheld him, and was at hand for meeting him.
JDG 19:4 And his father-in-law brought him in - the father of the young woman. And he stayed with him three days. And they ate and drank and slept there.
JDG 19:5 And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart. And the father of the young woman said to his son-in-law, Support your heart with a piece of bread, and after this go!
JDG 19:6 And he sat down, and both ate together, and drank. And the father of the young woman said to the man, For a beginning, lodge and do good to your heart!
JDG 19:7 And the man rose up to depart, and his father-in-law forced him, and he stayed and lodged there.
JDG 19:8 And he rose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart. And the father of the young woman said, Support indeed your heart with bread, and soldier until the day should decline! And both ate and drank.
JDG 19:9 And the man rose up to go, he and his concubine, and his servant. And his father-in-law said to him, the father of the young woman, Behold, indeed the day is declined into evening, lodge here and do good to your heart, and rise early tomorrow unto your way, and you shall depart unto your tent!
JDG 19:10 And the man did not want to lodge. And he rose up and went forth, and came unto before Jebus, this is Jerusalem; and with him were a pair of beasts of burden being saddled, and his concubine with him.
JDG 19:11 And they were near Jebus, and the day declined exceedingly. And the servant said to his master, Come please, even we should turn aside into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
JDG 19:12 And his master said to him, In no way shall we turn aside into an alien city, in which there is not one from the sons of Israel; even we shall go by unto Gibeah.
JDG 19:13 And he said to his servant, Come, for we should approach one of the places, and we should lodge in Gibeah or in Ramah.
JDG 19:14 And they went by, and the sun went down on them being next to Gibeah, which is of Benjamin.
JDG 19:15 And they turned aside there to enter to rest up in Gibeah. And he entered and sat in the square of the city; and there is not a man bringing them into the house to rest up.
JDG 19:16 And behold, an old man entered from his works from out of the field at evening, and the man was from mount Ephraim; and he sojourned in Gibeah. And the men of the place were sons of Benjamin.
JDG 19:17 And he looked up with his eyes, and saw the journeying man in the square of the city. And the old man said, Where are you going, and from what place do you come?
JDG 19:18 And he said to him, We are passing over from Beth-lehem of Judah unto the side of mount Ephraim; And I am from there, and I went unto Beth-lehem of Judah, and I run to my house; but there is not a man bringing me into a house.
JDG 19:19 And indeed straw and fodder exists for our donkeys, and indeed bread and wine exists to me, and to the maidservant, and to the servant - to your servants there is not a deficiency of any thing.
JDG 19:20 And the old man said, Peace to you; only let any deficiency of yours be upon me, only you should not rest up in the square.
JDG 19:21 And he brought him into his house, and camped his beasts of burden. And they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
JDG 19:22 And they were doing their heart good; and, behold, the men of the city, sons of lawbreakers, encircled the house, and knocked upon the door, and said to the man, the master of the house, the old man, saying, Lead out the man entering into your house, that we should know him.
JDG 19:23 And the man came forth to them, the master of the house, and said to them, By no means, my brothers; you should not do evil indeed with this man entering into my house - you should not do this folly.
JDG 19:24 Behold, my daughter the virgin, and his concubine; but I will bring them, and you humble them, and do to them the good thing in your eyes - and to this man you should not do the thing of this folly.
JDG 19:25 And the men did not want to hear him. And the man took hold of his concubine, and led her to them outside; and they knew her, and sported with her the entire night until the morning. And they sent her at the same time the dawn ascended.
JDG 19:26 And the woman came in the morning, and fell by the door of the vestibule of the house of the man of whom her master was there, until of which time light shown through.
JDG 19:27 And her master rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and came forth to depart into his way. And behold, the woman, his concubine, was fallen by the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
JDG 19:28 And he said to her, Rise up, for we should go forth! And she answered not to him for she had died. And he lifted her upon the beast of burden, and the man rose up and went forth to his place.
JDG 19:29 And he entered into his house, and took the knife, and took hold of his concubine, and dismembered her according to her bones into twelve portions, and sent them unto all the tribes of Israel.
JDG 19:30 And it came to pass all the ones seeing said, Neither happened, nor was thus seen from the days of the ascending of the sons of Israel from out of the land of Egypt until this day. Appoint indeed to yourselves counsel concerning her, and speak!
JDG 20:1 And there came forth all the sons of Israel, and the congregation held an assembly as one man, from Dan and unto Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before the LORD in Mizpeh.
JDG 20:2 And the region established all of the people in all the tribes of Israel in the assembly of the people of God - four hundred thousand men on foot unsheathing the broadsword.
JDG 20:3 (And the sons of Benjamin heard that the sons of Israel ascended unto Mizpeh.) And the sons of Israel said, Tell where this evil took place?
JDG 20:4 And the man answered, the Levite, the husband of the woman having been murdered, and said, I came unto Gibeah of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to rest up.
JDG 20:5 And the men rose up against me, the ones of Gibeah, and they encircled upon me, upon the house at night, and wanted to kill me. And they humbled my concubine, and sported with her, and she died.
JDG 20:6 And I took hold of my concubine, and I dismembered her, and I sent out into every border of the inheritance of Israel - for they committed folly in Israel.
JDG 20:7 Behold, all you, the sons of Israel, make to yourselves an account and plan here!
JDG 20:8 And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We shall not enter - a man into his tent, and we shall not turn aside - a man to his house.
JDG 20:9 And now this is the thing which we shall do to Gibeah; we will ascend against it by lot.
JDG 20:10 And we shall take ten men out of a hundred for all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred out of a thousand men, and a thousand out of ten thousand men, to take a provision for the people, to complete the task to the ones in going unto Gibeah of Benjamin, against all the folly which they did in Israel.
JDG 20:11 And came together every man of Israel to the city, as one man coming.
JDG 20:12 And the tribes of Israel sent out men in all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil that took place among you?
JDG 20:13 And now, give over the impious men in Gibeah, the sons of Belial, and we shall kill them, and lift away evil from Israel. But the sons of Benjamin wanted not to hear the voice of their brothers of the sons of Israel.
JDG 20:14 And the sons of Benjamin came together from their cities to Gibeah, to go forth into battle array against the sons of Israel.
JDG 20:15 And the sons of Benjamin were numbered in that day from out of the cities - twenty five thousand men unsheathing the broadsword, apart from the ones dwelling in Gibeah.
JDG 20:16 These numbered seven hundred chosen men from all of the people, ambidextrous; all these were slingers casting stones accurate to the hair, and not missing entirely.
JDG 20:17 And every man of Israel were numbered separate from the sons of Benjamin - four hundred thousand men unsheathing the broadsword. All these were men warriors.
JDG 20:18 And they rose up and ascended unto Beth-el, and asked of God. And the sons of Israel said, Who shall ascend to us guiding to wage war with the sons of Benjamin? And the LORD said, Judah shall ascend guiding.
JDG 20:19 And the sons of Israel rose up in the morning, and camped at Gibeah.
JDG 20:20 And every man of Israel went forth for war against Benjamin. And the man of Israel deployed against them for war against Gibeah.
JDG 20:21 And came forth the sons of Benjamin from out of the city, and they utterly destroyed in Israel in that day two and twenty thousand men upon the ground.
JDG 20:22 And the people strengthened - the man of Israel. And they proceeded to deploy for war in the place in which he deployed there on the first day.
JDG 20:23 And the sons of Israel ascended up, and wept before the LORD until evening, and asked of the LORD, saying, Shall I proceed to draw near for war against the sons of Benjamin my brother? And the LORD said, Ascend against him!
JDG 20:24 And the sons of Israel came forward against the sons of Benjamin in the second day.
JDG 20:25 And Benjamin came forth to meet them from Gibeah on the second day. And they utterly destroyed yet of the people of Israel eighteen thousand men upon the ground, all these unsheathing the broadsword.
JDG 20:26 And all the sons of Israel ascended up, and all the people, and came unto Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before the LORD, and fasted in that day until evening. And they offered a whole burnt offering for deliverance before the LORD.
JDG 20:27 And the sons of Israel asked in the LORD, (and the ark of the covenant of the LORD was there in those days,
JDG 20:28 and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days,) saying, Shall I proceed still to go forth for war against the sons of Benjamin my brother, or slacken? And the LORD said, Ascend, and tomorrow I will deliver him into your hand.
JDG 20:29 And the sons of Israel placed an ambush in Gibeah round about.
JDG 20:30 And the sons of Israel ascended against the sons of Benjamin on the third day. And they deployed against Gibeah as once before, and once before that.
JDG 20:31 And the sons of Benjamin came forth for meeting the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to strike of the people (slain as once before, and once before that) in the ways which there is one ascending to Beth-el, and one ascending to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
JDG 20:32 And the sons of Benjamin said, They stumble before us as before. And the sons of Israel said, We should flee, and pull them out from the city into the ways.
JDG 20:33 And every man of Israel rose up from his place, and deployed in Baal-tamar. And the ambush of Israel wrestled from out of its place from the descent of Gibeah.
JDG 20:34 And they arrived right opposite Gibeah - ten thousand chosen men from out of all Israel. And the battle weighed down, and they they knew not that hurt has been affixed upon them.
JDG 20:35 And the LORD put Benjamin to flight before Israel. And the sons of Israel utterly destroyed among Benjamin in that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men - all these unsheathing the broadsword.
JDG 20:36 And the sons of Benjamin beheld that they were put to flight. And the man of Israel gave place to Benjamin, for they hoped upon the ambush which they arranged near Gibeah.
JDG 20:37 And the ambush advanced, and they poured out against Gibeah. And the ambush went, and they struck all the city by the mouth of the broadsword.
JDG 20:38 And the arranged order was with the man of Israel with the ambush, for them to offer a signal-fire of smoke from the city.
JDG 20:39 And the man of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to strike slain against the man of Israel about thirty men. For they said, Surely being put to flight he was put to flight before us as the battle before.
JDG 20:40 And the signal-fire began to ascend from the city as a column of smoke. And Benjamin looked behind him, and, behold, there ascended the consummation of the city unto the heaven.
JDG 20:41 And the man of Israel turned. And the man of Benjamin hastened, for he beheld that a bad thing has touched him.
JDG 20:42 And they leaned before the man of Israel in the way of the wilderness, and the battle fell upon them unawares. And the ones from the cities - they utterly destroyed them in their midst.
JDG 20:43 And they cut up Benjamin, and pursued him according to his feet, and trampled him unto opposite Gibeah towards the rising of the sun.
JDG 20:44 And eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell - all these men of power.
JDG 20:45 And they turned aside and fled into the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon. And they gleaned him in the ways - five thousand men. And they cleaved after them unto Gidom, and struck of them two thousand men.
JDG 20:46 And it came to pass all the ones falling among Benjamin was twenty-five thousand men unsheathing the broadsword in that day - all these were men of power.
JDG 20:47 And they turned aside and fled into the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon - six hundred men; and they stayed at the rock of Rimmon four months.
JDG 20:48 And the man of Israel turned against the sons of Benjamin, and struck them by the mouth of the broadsword, from the next city by city city., unto beast, and unto all being found in the cities - and the cities being found they burned by fire.
JDG 21:1 And the man of Israel swore by an oath in Mizpeh, saying, Not a man from us shall give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
JDG 21:2 And all the people came unto Beth-el, and sat there until evening before God, and lifted their voice, and wept a great weeping.
JDG 21:3 And they said, Why, O LORD God of Israel, has this taken place in Israel, to overlook today in Israel one tribe?
JDG 21:4 And it happened in the next day that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered a whole burnt offering of deliverance.
JDG 21:5 And the sons of Israel said, Who is the one not ascending among the assembly from all of the tribes of Israel to the LORD? For there was a great oath concerning the one not ascending to the LORD in Mizpeh, saying, To death he shall die.
JDG 21:6 And the sons of Israel relented concerning their brother Benjamin, and said, one tribe from Israel is removed today.
JDG 21:7 What should we do to them, to the ones left behind - for wives; for we swore by an oath to the LORD to not give to them from our daughters for wives?
JDG 21:8 And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel which ascended not to the LORD in Mizpeh? And behold, not a man came to the camp from Jabesh Gilead to the assembly.
JDG 21:9 And the people were numbered, And behold, there is not there a man from the ones dwelling in Jabesh Gilead.
JDG 21:10 And the congregation sent there twelve thousand men from the sons of the force. And they gave charge to them, saying, Go and strike all the ones dwelling in Jabesh Gilead by the mouth of the broadsword, even the women and the people!
JDG 21:11 And this is the word which you shall do. Every male and every woman knowing the marriage-bed of a man you shall devote to consumption.
JDG 21:12 And they found of ones dwelling Jabesh Gilead four hundred young women virgins that knew not a man, in the marriage-bed of a man. And they led them into the camp in Shiloh which is in the land of Canaan.
JDG 21:13 And all the congregation sent and spoke to the sons of Benjamin at the rock of Rimmon, and they called them for peace.
JDG 21:14 And Benjamin returned to the sons of Israel in that time, and they gave to them the women who were of the women of Jabesh Gilead - and it pleased them thus.
JDG 21:15 And the people were comforted concerning Benjamin, for the LORD made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
JDG 21:16 And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do to the remaining for wives, now that the woman was removed from Benjamin?
JDG 21:17 And he said, There must be an inheritance to the ones surviving - to Benjamin, that in no way a tribe should be wiped away from Israel.
JDG 21:18 For we are not able to give to them wives from our daughters, for the sons of Israel swore by an oath, saying, Accursed is the one giving a wife to Benjamin.
JDG 21:19 And they said, Behold, there is a holiday to the LORD in Shiloh from days to days, which is from the north of Beth-el, according to the rising of the sun, upon the corridor ascending from Beth-el unto Shechem, and from south of Lebonah.
JDG 21:20 And they gave charge to the sons of Benjamin, saying, Go forth and lie in wait at the vineyards!
JDG 21:21 And you shall look, and, behold, whenever the daughters of the ones dwelling in Shiloh should come forth joining in a dance with a company of dancers, that you shall come forth from the vineyards, and let a man seize by force to himself a wife from the daughters of Shiloh! And you shall depart unto the land of Benjamin.
JDG 21:22 And it will be whenever their fathers or their brothers should come to quarrel with us, that we shall say to them, Show mercy on them! For a man did not take to himself a wife in the battle, for you did not give to them according to the time which you trespassed.
JDG 21:23 And the sons of Benjamin did thus, and took wives according to their number from the ones dancing whom they snatched. And they went and returned unto their inheritance, and built up the cities, and dwelt in them.
JDG 21:24 And the sons of Israel walked from there in that time, each man to his tribe, and to his kin; and each man went forth from there to his inheritance.
JDG 21:25 In those days there was not a king in Israel - man did the upright thing in his eyes.
RUT 1:1 And it came to pass in the days in the judging of the judges. And came to pass a famine in the land. And went forth a man from Beth-lehem of Judea to sojourn in the field of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
RUT 1:2 And the name to the man was Elimelech, and the name to his wife was Naomi, and the name to his two sons - Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites from out of Beth-lehem of Judah. And they came into the country of Moab, and were there.
RUT 1:3 And Elimelech the husband of Naomi died; and she and her two sons were left.
RUT 1:4 And they took to themselves Moabite wives; the name to the one was Orpah, and the name to the second Ruth; and they dwelt there about ten years.
RUT 1:5 And also indeed both Mahlon and Chilion died; and the woman was left of her two sons, and of her husband.
RUT 1:6 And she rose up, and her two daughters-in-law, and they returned from out of the country of Moab; for they heard in the country of Moab that the LORD visited his people to give to them breads.
RUT 1:7 And she went forth from out of the place of which she was there, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went by journey to return to the land of Judah.
RUT 1:8 And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, please, let each return to the house of her mother! May the LORD deal mercy with you, as you did with the ones having died, and with me.
RUT 1:9 May the LORD give to you, and you should find rest each in the house of her husband. And she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice and wept.
RUT 1:10 And they said to her, We shall return with you unto your people.
RUT 1:11 And Naomi said, Return, please, my daughters! Why do you go with me? Are there still to me sons in my belly, and will they be to you for husbands?
RUT 1:12 Return, please, my daughters! Go, please! For I grow old to not have a husband. For I said, Is it to me a reality for it to be to me a husband, and shall I give birth to sons?
RUT 1:13 Shall you wait for them until of which time they should become manly? Or, for them shall you hold up to not have a husband? No, my daughters. For it is made bitter to me exceedingly for you that the hand of the LORD came forth against me.
RUT 1:14 And they lifted up their voice, and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, and turned back to her people; but Ruth followed her.
RUT 1:15 And Naomi said to Ruth, Behold, your sister-in-law returned to her people, and to her gods; you also please turn back after your sister-in-law!
RUT 1:16 And Ruth said, Do not encounter to me to leave you, or to turn behind you! For you - where ever you should go, I shall go; and where ever you should lodge, I shall lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God.
RUT 1:17 And where ever you should die, I shall die, and there I shall be entombed. Thus the LORD do to me, and thus may he add more! For death only shall separate between me and you.
RUT 1:18 And Naomi seeing that she was determined to go with her, abated to speak to her any more.
RUT 1:19 And both went until their arriving in Beth-lehem. And it came to pass in their coming unto Beth-lehem, that all the city resounded concerning them, and they said, Is this Naomi?
RUT 1:20 And she said to them, Do not indeed call me Naomi! Call me, Bitter! for the worthy one embittered me exceedingly.
RUT 1:21 I went out full, and the LORD returned me empty. And why do you call me Naomi, and the LORD humbled me, and the worthy one afflicted me?
RUT 1:22 And Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, to return from the country of Moab. And they came unto Beth-lehem at the beginning of barley harvest.
RUT 2:1 And to Naomi was a man acquainted to her husband, and the man was mighty in strength of the kin of Elimelech; and the name to him was Boaz.
RUT 2:2 And Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, I should go indeed into a field, and gather among the ears of wheat after of whom ever I should find favor in his eyes. And she said to her, Go, O daughter!
RUT 2:3 And she went. And having arrived, she collected together in the field after the ones harvesting. And she fell by chance in the portion of the field of Boaz, of the kin of Elimelech.
RUT 2:4 And, behold, Boaz came from Beth-lehem, and said to the ones harvesting, The LORD be with you. And they said to him, May the LORD bless you.
RUT 2:5 And Boaz said to his servant having been set over the ones harvesting, Whose young woman is this?
RUT 2:6 And the servant attending over the ones harvesting answered and said, She is the Moabitess servant returning with Naomi from out of the country of Moab.
RUT 2:7 And she said, I shall collect together please, and I will bring in the sheaves behind the ones harvesting. And she came and stood, from morning and until evening - she rested not in the field a little.
RUT 2:8 And Boaz said to Ruth, Did you not hear, O daughter? You should not go to collect into another field, and you should not go from here - you join up here with my young women!
RUT 2:9 And let your eyes be unto the field where ever mine should harvest, and you should go after them! Behold, I gave charge to the servants to not touch you. And when you shall thirst, then you shall go to the vessels, and you shall drink from where the servants should draw water.
RUT 2:10 And she fell upon her face, and did obeisance upon the ground, and said to him, Why is it that I found favor in your eyes to recognize me, and I am a stranger?
RUT 2:11 And Boaz answered, and said to her, By report it was reported to me all as much as you have done with your mother-in-law after the dying of your husband; and how you left behind your father, and your mother, and the land of your origin, and went to a people which you knew not yesterday and the third day before.
RUT 2:12 May the LORD repay your work, and may your wage be full from the LORD God of Israel, to whom you came to yield under his wings.
RUT 2:13 And she said, May I find favor in your eyes, O my master; for you comforted me, and because you spoke in your heart to your bondwoman; and behold, I shall be as one of your maidservants.
RUT 2:14 And Boaz said to her, Already it is the hour to eat; draw near here, for you shall eat of my breads, and dip your morsel in the vinegar! And Ruth sat by the side of the ones harvesting. And Boaz heaped up to her toasted grain, and she ate, and was filled, and left.
RUT 2:15 And she rose up to collect grain, and Boaz gave charge to his servants, saying, And indeed, let her collect in the midst of the sheaves, and do not shame her!
RUT 2:16 And indeed in setting aside, you set aside for her of the things being heaped up, and allow her, and she shall collect, and you shall not reproach her!
RUT 2:17 And she collected in the field until evening, and she beat with a rod what she collected up, and it was about an ephah of barley.
RUT 2:18 And she carried it, and entered into the city. And her mother-in-law saw what she collected - and Ruth brought forth to give to her what was left of what she was filled up with.
RUT 2:19 And her mother-in-law said to her, Where did you collect today? And where did you do it? May it be the one recognizing you be being blessed. And Ruth reported to her mother-in-law where she did it. And she said, The name of the man with whom I did this today is Boaz.
RUT 2:20 And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed is the LORD, for he abandoned not his mercy with the living and with the ones having died. And Naomi said to her, The man is near to us, of the ones acting as next of kin - he is of us.
RUT 2:21 And Ruth said to her mother-in-law, And also he said to me, You cleave with the young men of mine, until whenever they should finish all the harvest which belongs to me.
RUT 2:22 And Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, It is good, O daughter, that you went forth with his young women, and they shall not meet with you in another field.
RUT 2:23 And Ruth cleaved to the young women of Boaz to collect until they completed the harvest of the barley, and the harvest of the wheat.
RUT 3:1 And she stayed with her mother-in-law. And Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, O daughter, In no way shall I seek to rest for you, that a good thing should happen to you.
RUT 3:2 And now is not Boaz acquainted to us, of whom you were with his young women? Behold, he winnows at the threshing-floor of the barley this night.
RUT 3:3 And you shall bathe, and anoint, and put your clothes upon yourself, and ascend unto the threshing-floor! You should not make yourself known to the man, until he finishes eating and drinking.
RUT 3:4 And it will be at his going to sleep, that you shall perceive the place where he sleeps there, and you shall go in and uncover the things by his feet, and you shall go to sleep - and he shall report to you what you shall do.
RUT 3:5 And Ruth said to her, All as much as you should tell to me I will do.
RUT 3:6 And she went down into the threshing-floor, and she did according to all as much as her mother-in-law gave charge to her.
RUT 3:7 And Boaz ate, and drank, and did good to his heart, and went to sleep in a portion of the pile. And she came in secret, and uncovered the things by his feet, and went to sleep.
RUT 3:8 And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was startled and disturbed - and behold, a woman slept at his feet.
RUT 3:9 And he said, Who are you? And she said, I am Ruth, your bondwoman - and you shall put your garment border upon your bondwoman, for you are a relative.
RUT 3:10 And Boaz said, Being blessed are you by the LORD God, O daughter, for you did good in your mercy at the last over the first, for you to not go after the young men, whether poor or whether rich.
RUT 3:11 And now, O daughter, do not fear! All what ever you should say I will do for you. For all of the people of my tribe know that you are a woman of ability.
RUT 3:12 And now truly I am a relative. But indeed there is a relative in the land who is over me.
RUT 3:13 You lodge the night! and it will be in the morning, that if he should act as next of kin for you - good, let him act as next of kin! But if he should not want to act as next of kin for you, I shall act as next of kin for you. As the LORD lives, you go to sleep until morning!
RUT 3:14 And she went to sleep at his feet until morning. And she rose up before a man could recognize his neighbor. And Boaz said, Do not let it be known that a woman has come unto the threshing-floor!
RUT 3:15 And he said to her, Bring the apron upon you, and hold it! And she held it, and he measured six measures of barley, and placed them unto her. And she entered into the city.
RUT 3:16 And Ruth entered to her mother-in-law. And she said, What is it, O daughter? And she reported to her all as much as the man did for her.
RUT 3:17 And she said, These six measures of barley he gave to me, for he said to me, You should not enter empty to your mother-in-law.
RUT 3:18 And she said, Sit down, O daughter, until you realize how not the matter shall fall! For not in any way should the man be still until whenever he should finish the matter today.
RUT 4:1 And Boaz ascended unto the gate, and sat there. And behold, the relative came near whom Boaz spoke of. And Boaz said to him, In turning aside, sit here in private! And he turned aside, and sat.
RUT 4:2 And Boaz took ten men from the elders of the city, and said, Sit here! And they sat.
RUT 4:3 And Boaz said to the one acting as next of kin, Concerning the portion of the field which is of our brother Elimelech, which he gave to Naomi, the one returning from out of the country of Moab,
RUT 4:4 that I said to myself, I will uncover your ear, saying, You acquire it before the ones sitting down, and before the elders of my people! If you are acting as next of kin, then act as next of kin! But if not acting as next of kin, announce it to me, and I shall know! For there is not one besides you to act as next of kin, and I am after you. And he said, I am. I shall act as next of kin.
RUT 4:5 And Boaz said, In the day you acquire the field from the hand of Naomi, also of Ruth the Moabitess, wife of the one having died, even she you must acquire, so as to raise up the name of the one having died, for his inheritance.
RUT 4:6 And the relative said, I shall not be able to act as next of kin myself, lest at any time I ruin my right of inheritance. You yourself act as next of kin for my inheritance, for I shall not be able to act as next of kin!
RUT 4:7 And this was the ordinance in former times in Israel for the right of inheritance, and for the equivalent, to establish every matter - a man untied his sandal, and he gave it to his neighbor acting as next of kin for his right of inheritance. And this was testimony in Israel.
RUT 4:8 And the relative said to Boaz, You acquire to yourself my right of inheritance! And he untied his sandal and gave it to him.
RUT 4:9 And Boaz said to the elders, and to all the people, You are witnesses today that I have acquired all the things of Elimelech, and all as much as exists to Chilion and to Mahlon, from the hand of Naomi.
RUT 4:10 And indeed, Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon I have acquired for myself for wife, to raise up the name of the one having died, for his inheritance, and the name of the one having died shall not be utterly destroyed from among his brothers, and from the gate of his place - you are witnesses today.
RUT 4:11 And all the people at the gate said, We are witnesses. And the elders said, May the LORD give your wife, the one entering into your house, to be as Rachel and as Leah, the ones who both built the house of Israel, and did powerfully in Ephratah, and it will be a name in Beth-lehem.
RUT 4:12 And may your house become as the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bore to Judah. Of your seed may the LORD give to you children of this maidservant.
RUT 4:13 And Boaz took Ruth, and she became to him for wife. And he entered to her. And the LORD gave to her conception, and she bore a son.
RUT 4:14 And the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the LORD who rested not to provide to you today a relative; and may he call out your name in Israel.
RUT 4:15 And he will be to you for restoring life, and to nourish your gray hair; for your daughter-in-law loving you bore him, which is good to you above seven sons.
RUT 4:16 And Naomi took the boy, and put him to her bosom, and became to him for a wet-nurse.
RUT 4:17 And the neighbor women called to him the name, saying, A son was birthed to Naomi. And they called his name Obed - this one is father of Jesse, father of David.
RUT 4:18 And these are the generations of Pharez - Pharez engendered Hezron,
RUT 4:19 and Hezron engendered Ram, and Ram engendered Amminadab,
RUT 4:20 and Aminadab engendered Nahshon, and Nahshon engendered Salmon,
RUT 4:21 and Salmon engendered Boaz, and Boaz engendered Obed,
RUT 4:22 and Obed engendered Jesse, and Jesse engendered David.
1SA 1:1 And there was one man from Ramathaim Zophim, of mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son Zuph, from mount Ephraim.
1SA 1:2 And to this one was two wives; the name to the one was Hannah, and the name to the second was Peninnah. And there was to Peninnah a child, and to Hannah there was not a child.
1SA 1:3 And that man ascended from days to days from out of his city of Ramathaim to do obeisance and to sacrifice to the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. And was there Eli and his two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, priests of the LORD.
1SA 1:4 And came to pass a day that Elkanah sacrificed, and he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons, and to her daughters, portions.
1SA 1:5 And to Hannah he gave one portion, for there was not a child to her; except that Elkanah loved Hannah above Peninnah. But the LORD locked the matter concerning her womb.
1SA 1:6 And her rival provoked her to anger - even indeed a provocation to anger because of the treating her with contempt, for the LORD closed up the matters concerning her womb to not give to her a child.
1SA 1:7 Thus she did year by year in her ascending unto the house of the LORD; and she was depressed, and she wept, and did not eat.
1SA 1:8 And Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, what is it to you that you weep? And why do you not eat? And why does your heart beat you? Am I not good to you over ten children?
1SA 1:9 And Hannah rose up after their eating in Shiloh, and after drinking. And Eli the priest sat upon the chair at the doorposts of the temple of the LORD.
1SA 1:10 And she was in severe pain of soul, and she prayed to the LORD, and with weeping she wept.
1SA 1:11 And she vowed a vow, saying, O LORD of hosts, if looking you should look upon the humiliation of your bondwoman, and should remember me, and should not forget your bondwoman, and should give to your bondwoman seed of a male, then I will put him before you, dedicated until the day of his death. And an iron razor shall not ascend upon his head.
1SA 1:12 And it came to pass when she multiplied praying before the LORD, that Eli the priest watched her mouth.
1SA 1:13 And she spoke in her heart, and her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. And Eli considered her to be intoxicated.
1SA 1:14 And Eli said to her, Until when shall you be intoxicated? Remove your wine!
1SA 1:15 And Hannah answered, and said, No, O master, I am a woman with a hard day, and wine and strong drink I have not drunk, and I pour out my soul before the LORD.
1SA 1:16 You should not grant your bondwoman for a mischievous daughter. For from the amount of my meditation, and from the amount of my depression, I have been stretched out until the present.
1SA 1:17 And Eli answered, and said to her, Go in peace! The God of Israel will give to you all your request which you asked of him.
1SA 1:18 And she said, Your bondwoman found favor in your eyes. And the woman went her way, and ate with her husband, and drank, and her face was not downcast any longer.
1SA 1:19 And they rose early in the morning, and they did obeisance to the LORD, and went their way. And Elkanah entered unto his house in Ramah, and he knew Hannah his wife; and the LORD remembered her, and she conceived.
1SA 1:20 And it came to pass in the time of the days that Hannah bore a son, that she called his name Samuel, saying that, From the LORD almighty I asked him.
1SA 1:21 And the man Elkanah ascended, and all his house, to sacrifice in Shiloh, for the sacrifice of the days, and his vows.
1SA 1:22 And Hannah ascended not with him; for she said to her husband, I will wait until the ascending of the boy, whenever I should have weaned it, and he shall appear in front of the LORD, and shall settle there unto the eon.
1SA 1:23 And Elkanah her husband said to her, You do the good thing in your eyes; sit until whenever you should wean it! Only may the LORD establish the thing coming forth from out of your mouth. And the woman sat, and nursed her son until whenever she weaned him.
1SA 1:24 And she ascended with him unto Shiloh with a calf being three years old, and an ephah of fine flour, and a skin flask of wine. And she entered into the house of the LORD in Shiloh, and the boy with them.
1SA 1:25 And they led him before the LORD, and they slew the calf. And Hannah the mother of the boy brought it to Eli.
1SA 1:26 And she said, By me, O master, your soul should live; I am the woman standing before you with you while praying to the LORD.
1SA 1:27 Over this boy I prayed, and the LORD gave to me my request which I asked of him.
1SA 1:28 And I lend him to the LORD all the days which he should live for use by the LORD.
1SA 2:1 And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart is solidified in the LORD; my horn was raised high by my God; my mouth was widened over my enemies; for I was glad in your deliverance.
1SA 2:2 For there is not one holy as the LORD; and there is not a just one as our God; and there is not one holy besides you.
1SA 2:3 Do not boast, and do not speak high things in superiority! Let not come forth lofty language from out of your mouth! For the LORD is a God of knowledge, and God is preparing his practices.
1SA 2:4 The bow of the mighty is weakened, and the ones being weakened girded on power.
1SA 2:5 The ones full of breads are made less; and the ones hungering disregarded the land the hungering ceased.; for the sterile gave birth to seven, and the one with many in children weakened.
1SA 2:6 The LORD puts to death, and he brings forth alive; he leads them down into Hades, and he leads up.
1SA 2:7 The LORD makes poor, and he enriches; he humbles, and elevates.
1SA 2:8 He raises up from the earth the needy, and from the dung he raises the poor, to seat him with mighty ones of the people, and inheriting to them a throne of glory;
1SA 2:9 giving the thing vowed to the one vowing, and blessed the years of the just one; for not by strength is man able.
1SA 2:10 The LORD shall make his opponent weak. The LORD is holy. The LORD ascended into heavens, and he thundered. He shall judge the extremities of the earth being just. And he shall give strength to our kings, and will raise up high the horn of his anointed one.
1SA 2:11 And they went forth unto Ramah unto their house. And the boy was officiating to the LORD before the face of Eli the priest.
1SA 2:12 And the sons of Eli the priest were mischievous sons; not knowing the LORD.
1SA 2:13 And the ordinance of the priest of all the people of the one sacrificing was this - that the servant of the priest came when ever the meat boiled, and in his hand was a three-pronged meat hook.
1SA 2:14 And he stuck it into the great kettle, or into the brass caldron, or into the earthen pot; and all, what ever ascended on the meat hook the priest took to himself. According to thus they did to all Israel in Shiloh to the ones coming to sacrifice to the LORD.
1SA 2:15 And before the burning the fat, the servant of the priest would come, and said to the man sacrificing, Give meat to the priest to roast; for in no way shall I take meat from you cooked from out of the kettle.
1SA 2:16 And if the man who was sacrificing said, First let there be burnt as is fit for the fat, and then you shall take for yourself from all what your soul desires. Then he said, No, but now you shall give it; and if not, I will take it forcefully.
1SA 2:17 And the sin of the young men was great before the LORD, exceedingly; for they annulled the sacrifice of the LORD.
1SA 2:18 And Samuel was officiating in the presence of the LORD, a boy, being girded with a linen ephod.
1SA 2:19 And his mother made a small double garment for him, and brought to him from days unto days in her ascending with her husband, to sacrifice the sacrifice of the days.
1SA 2:20 And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, saying, the LORD pay to you seed from out of this woman for the loan of which she treated to the LORD. And the man went forth to his place.
1SA 2:21 And the LORD visited Hannah, and she conceived again, and she bore yet three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel was magnified in the presence of the LORD.
1SA 2:22 And Eli was an old man, exceedingly. And he heard what his sons did to all the sons of Israel, and that his sons went to bed with the women standing by the doors of the tent of the testimony.
1SA 2:23 And he said to them, Why do you do according to these things, which I hear being spoken ill of you from the mouth of all the people of the LORD?
1SA 2:24 No, children, no; for it is not good, the hearing which I hear of the making the people to not serve to the LORD.
1SA 2:25 If by sinning a man should sin against a man, then they shall pray for him to the LORD. But if a man sins against the LORD, who shall pray for him? But they hearkened not to the voice of their father. For willing, the LORD preferred to utterly destroy them.
1SA 2:26 And the boy Samuel went on, and was magnified, and was in good standing with the LORD, and with men.
1SA 2:27 And the man of God came to Eli, and said to him, Thus says the LORD, In revealing, I revealed myself to the house of your father, of their being bondmen to the house of Pharaoh in the land of Egypt.
1SA 2:28 And I chose the house of your father from out of all the tribes of Israel to officiate as priest to me, to ascend unto my altar, and to burn incense, and to carry an ephod before me. And I gave to the house of your father all the things of the sacrifices of the fire of the sons of Israel for food.
1SA 2:29 Why have you looked upon my incense offering, and upon my sacrifice offering with an impudent eye, and glorified your sons above me, in their blessing themselves with the first-fruit of every sacrifice of Israel, prior of me?
1SA 2:30 On account of this, thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, I said, Your house, and the house of your father shall go through before me unto the eon. And now, says the LORD, not even one will be to me, for the ones glorifying me I will glorify, and the ones treating me with contempt shall be disgraced.
1SA 2:31 Behold, days come, and I shall utterly destroy your seed, and the seed of the house of your father.
1SA 2:32 And you shall look upon new fortifications upon all the things which Israel shall do good - and there will not be an old man in your house all the days.
1SA 2:33 And a man whom I should not utterly destroy among you from my altar, I will make his eyes to fail, and his life will flow down, and all the ones abounding of your house shall fall by the broadsword of men.
1SA 2:34 And this is to you the sign which shall come upon these your two sons - Hophni and Phinehas; in one day both shall die.
1SA 2:35 And I will raise up for myself a trustworthy priest who will do all the things in my heart and the things in my soul. And I will build to him a trustworthy house; and he shall go through before my anointed all the days.
1SA 2:36 And it will be everyone being left behind among your house shall come to do obeisance to him for an obolus of silver, and for one bread, saying, Throw me aside upon one of your priesthoods to eat bread!
1SA 3:1 And the boy Samuel was officiating to the LORD before Eli the priest. And the word of the LORD was esteemed in those days - there was not a vision for giving orders.
1SA 3:2 And it came to pass in that day, that Eli slept in his own place, and his eyes began to be darkened, and he was not able to see.
1SA 3:3 And the lamp of God was before its being extinguished, and Samuel slept in the temple of the LORD where the ark of God was.
1SA 3:4 And the LORD called, saying, Samuel, Samuel. And he said, Behold, it is I.
1SA 3:5 And he ran to Eli, and said, Behold, it is I; for you called me. And he said, I have not called you; return and sleep! And he returned and slept.
1SA 3:6 And the LORD added again to call Samuel. And he went to Eli the second time, and said, Behold, it is I; for you called me. And he said, I have not called you child, return and sleep!
1SA 3:7 And it was before Samuel knew God, and before the revealing the word of the LORD to him.
1SA 3:8 And the LORD added again to call Samuel a third time. And he rose up and went to Eli. And said, Behold, it is I; for you have called me. And Eli discerned that the LORD has called the boy.
1SA 3:9 And Eli said to Samuel, Return and sleep child! And it will be if he should call you, that you shall say, Speak, O LORD, for your bondman hears! And Samuel went, and went to bed in his place.
1SA 3:10 And the LORD came, and stood, and called him as once before, and once before that, Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, O LORD, for your bondman hears!
1SA 3:11 And the LORD said to Samuel, Behold, I perform my words in Israel, so that every one hearing them, it shall sound in both of his ears.
1SA 3:12 In that day I rouse up against Eli all as many things as I spoke against his house - I will begin, and I will complete.
1SA 3:13 And I have announced to him that I punish; even I, his house, unto the eon for the iniquities of his sons, in which he knew that his sons were speaking evil of God, and he did not admonish them.
1SA 3:14 And have I not thus sworn by an oath to the house of Eli, Shall the iniquity of the house of Eli be atoned by incense or by sacrifices into the eon?
1SA 3:15 And Samuel went to bed until morning. And he rose up early in the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel feared to report the vision to Eli.
1SA 3:16 And Eli said to Samuel, Samuel child. And he said, Behold, it is I.
1SA 3:17 And he said, What was the word being spoken to you? Do not indeed hide them from me! Thus God do to you, and thus add to it, if you should hide from me the word.
1SA 3:18 And Samuel reported to him all the words, and hid not from him. And Eli said, The LORD himself will do the good thing before him.
1SA 3:19 And Samuel was magnified, and the LORD was with him, and there fell not one from all of his words upon the ground.
1SA 3:20 And all Israel knew from Dan and unto Beer-sheba that Samuel was trustworthy for prophet to the LORD.
1SA 3:21 And the LORD added again to manifest in Shiloh; for the LORD was revealed to Samuel in Shiloh according to the word of the LORD.
1SA 4:1 And came to pass the word of Samuel to all Israel. And the Philistines gathered together for war against Israel; and Israel went forth to meet them for war. And they camped at Eben-ezer. And the Philistines camped in Aphek.
1SA 4:2 And the Philistines deployed for war against Israel. And the war leaned one way, and the men of Israel failed before the Philistines. And four thousand men were struck in the battle array in the field.
1SA 4:3 And the people came into the camp. And the elders of Israel said, Why is it so the LORD devastated us today before the Philistines? We should take to us the ark of the covenant of the LORD from out of Shiloh, and let it come forth in our midst, and it will deliver us from the hand of our enemies!
1SA 4:4 And the people sent unto Shiloh, and lifted from there the ark of covenant of the LORD of the forces, of which the cherubim sit upon. And both the sons of Eli were with the ark of the covenant of God - Hophni and Phinehas.
1SA 4:5 And it came to pass as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the camp, that all Israel shouted aloud with a great voice, and the earth resounded.
1SA 4:6 And the Philistines heard the sound of the cry. And they said, What is the sound of the cry - this great one in the camp of the Hebrews? And they knew that the ark of the LORD comes into the camp.
1SA 4:7 And the Philistines feared, and they said, This their God comes to them into the camp.
1SA 4:8 Woe to us, rescue us, O Master, today! For it happened not thus yesterday and third day before. Woe to us, who shall rescue us from out of the hand of these substantial gods? These are the gods striking Egypt in every calamity, and in the wilderness.
1SA 4:9 Fortify, and become as men, O Philistines, so that you should not serve to the Hebrews, as they served to us! And you shall be for men, and wage war against them!
1SA 4:10 And the Philistines waged war against them, and every man of Israel failed before the Philistines, and each fled unto his tent. And there came to pass an exceedingly great calamity; and there fell from Israel thirty thousand from the ranks.
1SA 4:11 And the ark of God was taken, and both the sons of Eli died - Hophni and Phinehas.
1SA 4:12 And there ran a man of Benjamin from out of the battle array, and came into Shiloh on that day, and his garments were torn up, and earth was upon his head.
1SA 4:13 And he came, and behold, Eli sat upon his chair by the gate watching the way, for his heart was receded on account of the ark of God. And the man entered into the city to report. And the whole city yelled out.
1SA 4:14 And Eli heard the sound of the yelling, and said, What is this sound of yelling? And the man hastening, entered and reported to Eli.
1SA 4:15 And Eli was a son ninety and eight years, and his eyes were weighed down, and he did not see.
1SA 4:16 And Eli said to the men standing around him, What is the report of this sound? And the man hastening, came forward to Eli, and said to him, I am the one having come from out of the camp, and I have fled from the battle array today. And Eli said, What is the thing taking place child?
1SA 4:17 And the servant-lad answered and said, Every man of Israel fled from the face of the Philistines, and a great calamity has happened among the people, and both of your sons have died, and the ark of God was taken.
1SA 4:18 And it happened as the ark of God was mentioned, that he fell from the chair backwardly, being next to the gate, and his back was broken, and he died, for the man was old and heavy. And he judged Israel forty years.
1SA 4:19 And his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, having conceived to give birth, when she heard the message that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law died, and her husband, that she wept and gave birth, for her birth pangs turned upon her.
1SA 4:20 And in the time she was going to die, that the women standing beside her said to her, Do not fear! For you have birthed a son. But she did not answer, and did not comprehend in her heart.
1SA 4:21 And she called the boy, Ichabod, for the ark of God, and for her father-in-law, and for her husband.
1SA 4:22 And she said, The glory has been resettled from Israel - for the ark of God was taken.
1SA 5:1 And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it from out of Eben-ezer unto Ashdod.
1SA 5:2 And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it into the house of Dagon, and stood it by Dagon.
1SA 5:3 And the Ashdodites rose early, and entered into the house of Dagon the next day, and they saw, and behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face upon the ground before the ark of God. And they raised Dagon, and placed him upon his place.
1SA 5:4 And it came to pass as they rose early in the next day in the morning, and behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face before of the ark of the LORD. And the head of Dagon, and both the traces of his hands were removed unto the front of the doorposts, and both the wrists of his hands were fallen upon the threshold. Only the spine of Dagon was left behind.
1SA 5:5 On account of this, the priests of Dagon do not mount, nor do any enter into the house of Dagon by the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod until this day; but by passing over, they pass over it.
1SA 5:6 And the hand of the LORD was oppressive against the Ashdodites. And he tormented the Ashdodites, and struck them in their buttock - Ashdod, and their borders.
1SA 5:7 And the men of Ashdod beheld that it was so. And they spoke saying that, The ark of the God of Israel shall not settle with us, for his hand is hard against us, and against Dagon our god.
1SA 5:8 And they send and gather the satraps of the Philistines to themselves. And they say, What should we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the Gathites say, Let the ark of God pass between the ranks to us! And the ark of the God of Israel passed between the ranks unto Gath.
1SA 5:9 And it came to pass after it being passed through the ranks, that the hand of the LORD came against the city - an exceedingly great disturbance. And he struck the men of the city from small unto great in their buttocks.
1SA 5:10 And they sent out the ark of God unto Ekron. And it came to pass as the ark of God entered unto Ekron, that the Ekronites yelled out, saying, Why do you return the ark of the God of Israel to us, is it to put us to death and our people?
1SA 5:11 And they sent, and they brought together all the satraps of the Philistines. And they said, Send out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it sit in its place, so that in no way shall we be put to death - us and our people.
1SA 5:12 For there came to pass a confusion of death in the entire city, exceedingly severe, as the ark of the God of Israel entered. And the living and the dying were struck in the buttocks. And the cry of the city ascended unto the heaven.
1SA 6:1 And the ark of the LORD was in the field of the Philistines seven months.
1SA 6:2 And the Philistines called the priests, and the clairvoyants, and their enchanters, saying, What should we do with the ark of the LORD? Make known to us by what means we shall send it unto its place!
1SA 6:3 And they said, If you send out the ark of the covenant of the LORD God of Israel, do not send it out empty! But by delivering over, you give it back for the torment! And then you shall be healed, and it shall be atoned unto you - should he not remove his hand from you?
1SA 6:4 And they say, What thing for the torment shall we give for it? And they said,
1SA 6:5 According to the number of the satrapies of the Philistines - five buttocks of gold, for the fault in you, and your rulers, and to the people. And five golden mice; a representation of your mice corrupting the land. And you shall give to the LORD God glory, so that he should lighten his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
1SA 6:6 And why do you oppress your hearts as Egypt and Pharaoh oppressed their hearts? Was it not when he mocked them, that they sent them, and they went forth?
1SA 6:7 And now, take and make one new wagon, and two oxen having given birth for the first time, without the offspring, upon which a yoke was not placed upon! And team up the oxen on the wagon, and lead away their offspring from behind them to the house!
1SA 6:8 And you shall take the ark of the LORD, and you shall put it upon the wagon; and the items of gold, deliver it for the torment! And you shall put in place a chest on part of it, and you shall send it, and it shall go forth.
1SA 6:9 And you shall see if into the way of their border it shall go - according to Beth-shemesh, if he did to us this great evil. And if not, then we will know that it was not his hand that touched us, but that this was a coincidence to us.
1SA 6:10 And the Philistines did so. And they took two oxen, having given birth for the first time, and teamed them up to the wagon, and their offspring they shut up at the house.
1SA 6:11 And they put the ark of the LORD upon the wagon, and the place chest, and the mice of gold, and the images of their buttocks.
1SA 6:12 And the oxen straightened out in the journey on the way to Beth-Shemesh, in a road in its going, and they labored, and they turned not aside right nor left; and the satraps of the Philistines went after them unto the borders of Beth-shemesh.
1SA 6:13 And the ones in Beth-shemesh were harvesting the harvest of wheat in the valley. And they lifted their eyes, and they beheld the ark of the LORD, and they were rejoiced to meet it.
1SA 6:14 And the wagon entered into the field of Joshua, the one in Beth-shemesh, and it stood there by a great stone. And they split the wood of the wagon, and the oxen they offered for a whole burnt offering to the LORD.
1SA 6:15 And the Levites brought the ark of the LORD, and the place chest with it, and the items of gold, and put them upon the great stone. And the men of Beth-shemesh offered whole burnt offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices to the LORD in that day.
1SA 6:16 And the five satraps of the Philistines saw, and they returned to Ekron in that day.
1SA 6:17 And these are the gold buttocks which the Philistines gave back for the torment to the LORD - for Ashdod one, Gaza one, Ashkelon one, Gath one, Ekron one;
1SA 6:18 and gold mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, of the five satraps, from the city being solidly fortified, and unto the town of the Perezzite, and unto the great stone of which they placed upon it the ark of the covenant of the LORD until this day in the field of Joshua, of the one of Beth-shemesh.
1SA 6:19 And he struck the men of Beth-shemesh, for they beheld the ark of the LORD. And he struck among them seventy men, and fifty thousand men of the people. And the people mourned because the LORD struck among the people an exceedingly great calamity.
1SA 6:20 And they said, (the men from Beth-shemesh,) Who shall be able to stand before the LORD, this holy God? And to whom shall the ark of the LORD ascend from us?
1SA 6:21 And they sent messengers to the ones dwelling in Kirjath-jearim, saying, The Philistines returned the ark of the LORD, and you go down and lead it up unto you!
1SA 7:1 And the men of Kirjath-jearim came, and led up the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill. And they sanctified Eleazar his son to guard the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
1SA 7:2 And it came to pass from which day the ark was in Kirjath-jearim, the days were multiplied - and they became twenty years. And all the house of Israel looked after the LORD.
1SA 7:3 And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, saying, If with your entire heart you turn to the LORD, remove the gods of the aliens from your midst, and the sacred groves, and prepare your hearts to the LORD, and serve to him alone, and he will rescue you from out of the hand of the Philistines!
1SA 7:4 And the sons of Israel removed the Baalim, and the sacred groves of Ashtaroth, and served to the LORD alone.
1SA 7:5 And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpeh, and I will pray to the LORD for you!
1SA 7:6 And the people gathered together in Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out before the LORD upon the ground, and fasted in that day, and said, We have sinned against the LORD. And Samuel adjudicated for the sons of Israel in Mizpeh.
1SA 7:7 And the Philistines heard that all the sons of Israel were gathered together in Mizpeh. And the satraps of the Philistines ascended against Israel. And the sons of Israel heard, and were fearful from the face of the Philistines.
1SA 7:8 And the sons of Israel said to Samuel, Do not remain silent from us to not yell to the LORD your God, that he shall deliver us from out of the hand of the Philistines!
1SA 7:9 And Samuel took one suckling lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt offering to the LORD, with all the people. And Samuel yelled to the LORD over Israel; and the LORD heeded him.
1SA 7:10 And as Samuel was offering the whole burnt offering, that the Philistines led forward for war against Israel. And the LORD thundered with a great voice in that day against the Philistines, and they were confounded, and failed before Israel.
1SA 7:11 And the men of Israel came forth from out of Mizpeh, and pursued the Philistines, and struck them unto under Beth-car.
1SA 7:12 And Samuel took one stone, and set it between Mizpeh and between the old city, and called the name of it, Eben-ezer, signifying, Stone of the Helper. And he said, Unto here the LORD helped us.
1SA 7:13 And the LORD humbled the Philistines, and they proceeded not any longer to come unto the border of Israel. And the hand of the LORD was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
1SA 7:14 And the cities were given back which the Philistines took from the sons of Israel - from Ekron unto Gath. And the border of Israel was removed from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and between the Amorite.
1SA 7:15 And Samuel adjudicated for Israel all the days of his life.
1SA 7:16 And he went according to year by year and circled about Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and adjudicated for Israel in all these places.
1SA 7:17 And his returning was unto Ramah; for his house was there; and he adjudicated for Israel there; and he built there an altar to the LORD.
1SA 8:1 And it came to pass as Samuel grew old, that he placed his sons as magistrates in Israel.
1SA 8:2 And these are the names of his sons. The first-born was Joel; and the name of the second, Abiah - magistrates in Beer-sheba.
1SA 8:3 And his sons went not in his way, and turned aside after the contribution, and took bribes, and turned aside ordinances.
1SA 8:4 And the men of Israel gathered together, and came to Samuel into Ramah.
1SA 8:5 And they said to him, Behold, you grow old, and your sons go not in your way. And now place over us a king to adjudicate for us as all the nations!
1SA 8:6 And the matter was wicked in the eyes of Samuel, as they said, Give to us a king to adjudicate for us! And Samuel prayed to the LORD.
1SA 8:7 And the LORD said to Samuel, Hearken to the voice of the people as whatever they should speak to you. For it is not you they treat with contempt, but only me they treat with contempt, to not reign over them -
1SA 8:8 according to all the works which they did to me from which day I led them from Egypt, and until this day; even as they abandoned me, and served other gods, so they do also to you.
1SA 8:9 And now hearken to their voice! Only that in testifying you should testify to them, and you shall report to them the ordinance of the king, which shall reign over them.
1SA 8:10 And Samuel spoke all the words of the LORD to the people asking of him for a king.
1SA 8:11 And he said, This will be the ordinance of the king reigning over you. Your sons he shall take, and put them in his chariots, and among his horsemen; and they shall run in front of his chariots.
1SA 8:12 And he will appoint them to himself as commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds; and to plow his plowing, and to harvest his harvest, and to gather the vintage of his gathering the crops, and to make items for his warfare, and items for his chariots.
1SA 8:13 And your daughters he will take for perfumers, and for cooks, and for baking.
1SA 8:14 And your fields, and your vineyards, and your good olive groves he will take, and will give to his bondmen.
1SA 8:15 And the seeds of yours he will take a tenth, and of your vineyards, and will give to his eunuchs, and to his bondmen.
1SA 8:16 And your bondmen, and your bondwomen, and your good herds, and your donkeys he shall take - and he will take a tenth for his works.
1SA 8:17 And he will take a tenth of your flocks. And you will be to him for bondmen.
1SA 8:18 And you shall yell in that day before the face of your king, of which you chose for yourselves; and the LORD will not heed you in those days.
1SA 8:19 And the people willed not to hearken to the voice of Samuel. And they said to him, Not so, but let it be that a king will be over us.
1SA 8:20 And we also will be as all the nations; and our king shall adjudicate for us, and shall go forth in front of us, and will wage our war.
1SA 8:21 And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he spoke them into the ears of the LORD.
1SA 8:22 And the LORD said to Samuel, Hearken to their voice, and let a king reign unto them! And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Let each man run to his city!
1SA 9:1 And there was a man from the sons of Benjamin, and his name was Kish, son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Bechorath, son of Aphiah, son of a man of Benjamin, a mighty man in strength.
1SA 9:2 And to this one was a son, and his name was Saul, a huge goodly man. And there was not among the sons of Israel one good above him - he was head and shoulders and high above over all the land.
1SA 9:3 And the donkeys of Kish the father were lost of Saul. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take with yourself one of the servant-lads, and rise up, and go and seek the donkeys!
1SA 9:4 And they went through mount Ephraim, and went through the land of Shalitha, and did not find. And they went through the land of Shalim, and it was not. And they went through the land of Benjamin, and they did not find.
1SA 9:5 And of their coming unto Zuph, and Saul said to his servant-lad with him, Come, for we should return, lest my father sparing concerning the donkeys, should be thoughtful concerning us.
1SA 9:6 And the servant-lad said to him, Behold, indeed a man of God is in this city, and the man is honorable; all what ever he should speak, coming, it shall be at hand. And now, we should go there, so that he should report to us our way upon which we should go upon it.
1SA 9:7 And Saul said to his servant-lad with him, Yes, behold, we shall go. But what shall we carry in to the man of God, for the breads have failed from out of our containers, and there is not much with us to carry to the man of God that exists to us?
1SA 9:8 And the servant-lad proceeded to answer Saul, and said, Behold, there is found in my hand a fourth shekel of silver; and you shall give it to the man of God, and he shall report to us our way.
1SA 9:9 And before in Israel, thus said each man in their going to ask God, Come, and we should go to the seer. For the prophet was called by the people before, The Seer.
1SA 9:10 And Saul said to his servant-lad, Your word is good. Come, for we should go. And they went into the city of which was there the man of God.
1SA 9:11 And of their ascending the ascent of the city, and they found young women going forth to draw water. And they say to them, Is there here the seer?
1SA 9:12 And the young women answered them, and said, He is, behold, in front of you - hasten! For now he comes into the city, because of the day, for a sacrifice today for the people in Bama.
1SA 9:13 As soon as you enter into the city, thus you shall find him in the city, before his ascending unto Bama to eat. For in no way should the people eat until his entering, for this one blesses the sacrifice; and after these things the strangers eat. And now, ascend! For on account of the day you shall find him.
1SA 9:14 And they ascend into the city. And they were entering in the midst of the city, and behold, Samuel came forth for the meeting them, to ascend unto Bama.
1SA 9:15 And the LORD uncovered the ear of Samuel one day before Saul came to him, saying,
1SA 9:16 At this time tomorrow I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him for ruler over my people Israel, and he shall deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I looked upon the humiliation of my people, for their yelling came to me.
1SA 9:17 And Samuel beheld Saul, and the LORD answered him, Behold, the man whom I said to you - this one shall rule over my people.
1SA 9:18 And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the city, and he said, Report indeed to me, of what house is the seer?
1SA 9:19 And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am he. Ascend before me unto Bama, and eat with me today, and I will send you in the morning, and all the things in your heart I will report to you!
1SA 9:20 And concerning the donkeys being lost to you today for three days, you should not put your heart to them, for they are found. And what are the beautiful things of Israel? Is it not to you, and to all the house of your father?
1SA 9:21 And Saul answered and said, Am I not a man a son of a Benjamite, of the lesser chiefdom of the tribes of Israel? And my family least of all the families of Benjamin? And why have you spoken to me concerning this thing?
1SA 9:22 And Samuel took Saul and his servant-lad, and brought them into the lodging, and set for them a place among the foremost of the ones being called - about thirty men.
1SA 9:23 And Samuel said to the cook, Give to me the portion which I gave to you, which I told you to put it by you.
1SA 9:24 And the cook took the hind quarter, and the part upon it, and placed it before Saul. And Samuel said to Saul, Behold, the leftover; place it before you, and eat! For as a testimony it is placed for you over the people - pluck it off! And Saul ate with Samuel in that day.
1SA 9:25 And he went down from Bama into the city. And they spread carpets to Saul upon the roof, and he went to bed.
1SA 9:26 And it came to pass as the dawn ascended, that Samuel called to Saul upon the roof, saying, Rise up, and I shall send you out! And Saul rose up, and he and Samuel went forth unto the outside.
1SA 9:27 And as they were going down into the uttermost part of the city, that Samuel said to Saul, Speak to the young man, and let him go through in front of us! And you stand here today, and hear the word of God!
1SA 10:1 And Samuel took the flask of oil and poured down upon his head, and kissed him. And he said to him, Is it not that the LORD anointed you as ruler over his inheritance?
1SA 10:2 As soon as you should go forth today from me, that you shall find two men near the burying-places of Rachel, on the borders of Benjamin, leaping greatly. And they shall say to you, The donkeys have been found which you went to seek. And behold, your father brushed off the matter of the donkeys, and is worried about you, saying, What should I do about my son?
1SA 10:3 And you shall go forth from there, and beyond. And you shall come unto the oak of Tabor, and you shall find there three men ascending to God unto Beth-el, one taking three kids, and one taking three containers of breads, and one taking a leather bag of wine.
1SA 10:4 And they shall ask you the things for peace, and shall give to you two first-fruits of breads; and you shall take them from out of their hand.
1SA 10:5 And after these things you shall enter unto the hill of God, of which the height of the Philistines is there. And it will take place when ever you should enter there into the city, that you will meet a company of dancers of prophets coming down from out of Bama, and in front of them a stringed instrument, and tambourine, and pipe, and lute; and they are prophesying.
1SA 10:6 And spirit of the LORD shall spring upon you, and you shall prophesy with them, and you shall turn into another man.
1SA 10:7 And it will be whenever these signs shall come upon you, do all as much as your hand should find, for God is with you!
1SA 10:8 And you shall go down in front of me unto Gilgal. And behold, I come down to you, to offer a whole burnt offering, and to sacrifice sacrifice offerings of peace. Seven days you shall stop, until my coming to you, and to make known to you what you shall do.
1SA 10:9 And it came to pass so as his shoulder turned to go forth from Samuel, that God converted his heart to another. And came to pass all these signs in that day.
1SA 10:10 And he comes from there unto the hill, and behold, a company of dancers of prophets was right opposite him. And spirit of God leaped upon him, and he prophesied in the midst of them.
1SA 10:11 And came to pass all the things being made known to him yesterday and the third day before. And behold, he was in the midst of the prophets prophesying. And the people each said to his neighbor, What is this having happened to the son of Kish? Or, is also Saul among the prophets?
1SA 10:12 And a certain one of them answered, and said, And who is his father? On account of this it became for a parable, Might also Saul be among the prophets?
1SA 10:13 And he completed prophesying, and comes to the hill.
1SA 10:14 And his uncle said to him and to his servant-lad, Where have you gone? And he said, To seek the donkeys, and we saw that they are not around, and we entered unto Samuel.
1SA 10:15 And the uncle said to Saul, Report indeed to me what Samuel said to you!
1SA 10:16 And Saul said to the member of his family, By reporting he reported to me that the donkeys were found. But the matter of the kingdom, he did not report to him what Samuel said.
1SA 10:17 And Samuel summoned all the people to the LORD in Mizpeh.
1SA 10:18 And he said to the sons of Israel, Thus said the LORD God of Israel, saying, I led Israel from out of Egypt, and I rescued you from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and from the hand of all the kingdoms of the ones afflicting you.
1SA 10:19 And you today treat your God with contempt, who he himself is your deliverer from out of all your bad things, and your afflictions. And you said, But only a king you shall place over us. And now, stand before the LORD according to your tribes, and according to your thousands!
1SA 10:20 And Samuel led forward all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen by lot.
1SA 10:21 And he led forward the tribe of Benjamin according to family, and the family of Matri was chosen by lot. And Saul son of Kish was chosen by lot. And he sought him, and he was not found.
1SA 10:22 And Samuel asked again to the LORD, Shall the man still come here? And the LORD said, Behold, he hides among the equipment.
1SA 10:23 And he ran and took him from there, and placed him in the midst of the people. And he was head and shoulders high above all the people, and above.
1SA 10:24 And Samuel said to all the people, You see whom the LORD has chosen for himself, that there is not one likened to him among all you? And all the people knew, and said, Let the king live!
1SA 10:25 And Samuel spoke to the people the ordinance of the kingship. And he wrote in a scroll, and put it before the LORD. And Samuel sent out all the people; and each went forth unto his place.
1SA 10:26 And Saul went forth unto his house in Gibeah. And the sons of power went (whom the LORD touched their hearts) with Saul.
1SA 10:27 And the mischievous sons said, Who is this that shall deliver us? And they dishonored him, and did not bring him gifts. And he became one being silent.
1SA 11:1 And Nahash the Ammonite ascended, and camped against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash the Ammonite, Ordain with us a covenant, and we will serve to you!
1SA 11:2 And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, By this I will ordain with you a covenant, in the gouging out the right eye of all of you. And I will make it for scorn upon all Israel.
1SA 11:3 And the men of Jabesh spoke to him, saying, Spare us seven days, and we will send messengers unto every border of Israel. And if there might not be one delivering us, then we will come forth to you.
1SA 11:4 And the messengers came into Gibeah to Saul, and they spoke these words into the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
1SA 11:5 And behold, Saul came from behind the oxen from out of the field. And Saul said, Why is it that the people weep? And they described to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
1SA 11:6 And spirit of the LORD sprang upon Saul, as he heard these words, and his anger was exceedingly enraged over them.
1SA 11:7 And he took two oxen, and dismembered them, and sent them unto every border of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever is not going forth after Saul and after Samuel, according to thus they shall do to his oxen. And there fell a change of state of the LORD upon the people, and they yelled as one man.
1SA 11:8 And he numbered them in Bezek, all the men of Israel - three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah - thirty thousand.
1SA 11:9 And he said to the messengers coming, Thus you shall say to the men of Jabesh Gilead, Tomorrow there will be deliverance to you at the warming through of the sun. And the messengers came into the city, and they reported to the men of Jabesh, and they were glad.
1SA 11:10 And the men of Jabesh said to Nahash the Ammonite, Tomorrow we shall come forth to you, and you shall do to us what is good before you.
1SA 11:11 And it came to pass with the morning, that Saul put the people into three companies, and they entered into the midst of the camp in the early morning watch, and struck the sons of Ammon until the day warmed through. And it came to pass, the ones being left behind were scattered, and there was not left behind among them two together.
1SA 11:12 And the people said to Samuel, Who is the one saying, Saul shall not reign over us? Deliver up the men, and we will kill them!
1SA 11:13 And Saul said, Not shall any one die in this day, for today the LORD produced deliverance in Israel.
1SA 11:14 And Samuel said to the people, saying, Come, we should go unto Gilgal, and we should renew there the kingdom.
1SA 11:15 And all the people went unto Gilgal; and Samuel anointed Saul there as king before the LORD in Gilgal; and he sacrificed there sacrifice offerings and peace offerings before the LORD; and Saul was glad there and all the men of Israel greatly.
1SA 12:1 And Samuel said to every man of Israel, Behold, I hearkened to your voice in all as many things as you said to me, and I gave reign over you a king.
1SA 12:2 And now, behold, the king travels before you. And I grow old and shall sit; and behold, my sons are among you. And I, behold, I have gone before you from my youth, and until this day.
1SA 12:3 Behold, I am here. You should respond against me before the LORD, and before his anointed one. Of whose calf have I taken? or whose donkey have I taken? or who of you have I tyrannized over? or who have I pressured? or from out of whose hand have I taken an appeasement, or a sandal? Should you respond to me, then I will give it back to you.
1SA 12:4 And they said to Samuel, You did not wrong us, and you did not tyrannize over us, and you have not taken from anyone's hand - not one thing.
1SA 12:5 And Samuel said to the people, The LORD is witness among you, and his anointed one is witness in this day, that you have not found in my hand anything. And they said, He is witness.
1SA 12:6 And Samuel said to the people, saying, The LORD is witness, the one preparing Moses and Aaron, and the one leading our fathers from out of Egypt.
1SA 12:7 And now stand, and I will adjudicate for you before the LORD, and I will report to you all the righteousness of the LORD, which he did to you and to your fathers -
1SA 12:8 as Jacob and his sons entered into Egypt, and Egypt humbled them. And our fathers yelled to the LORD, and the LORD sent Moses and Aaron. And he led our fathers out of Egypt, and settled them in this place.
1SA 12:9 And they forgot the LORD their God, and he gave them into the hands of Sisera commander-in-chief of Jabesh, king of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab. And they waged war with them.
1SA 12:10 And they yelled to the LORD, and said, We sinned, for we abandoned the LORD, and we served to the Baalim, and to the sacred groves. And now rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve to you!
1SA 12:11 And the LORD sent Jerubbaal, and Barak, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and rescued you round about from the hand of your enemies, and you dwell secure.
1SA 12:12 And you beheld that Nahash king of the sons of Ammon came upon you, and you said, No, but only that a king shall reign over us. And the LORD our God is your king.
1SA 12:13 And now behold, the king whom you chose and whom you acquire. And behold, the LORD puts over you a king!
1SA 12:14 If you should fear the LORD, and should serve to him, and should hearken to his voice, and should not contend with the mouth of the LORD, then you should be, (even you yourselves, and the king reigning over you,) going after the LORD your God.
1SA 12:15 But if you should not hearken to the voice of the LORD, and should contend with the mouth of the LORD, then the hand of the LORD will be against you, and against your king.
1SA 12:16 And now, stand and behold this great thing which the LORD will do in your eyes!
1SA 12:17 Is it not the harvest of wheat today? I shall call upon the LORD, and he will give thundering sounds and rain. And know and behold that great is your evil which you did before the LORD, asking for yourselves a king!
1SA 12:18 And Samuel called upon the LORD. And the LORD gave sounds and rain in that day. And all the people feared the LORD exceedingly, and Samuel.
1SA 12:19 And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your bondmen to the LORD your God, and in no way we should die! For we added unto all our sins this evil asking for ourselves a king.
1SA 12:20 And Samuel said to the people, Do not fear! You have done all this evil, except you should not turn aside from following after the LORD. And serve to the LORD with your entire heart!
1SA 12:21 And you should not turn aside after the things being nothing, which achieve nothing, and which shall not rescue - for they are nothing.
1SA 12:22 For the LORD shall not thrust away his people because of his great name; for the LORD took you to make for a people to himself.
1SA 12:23 But to me, may it not be to sin against the LORD, to stop praying for you to the LORD. But I will manifest to you the good and straight way.
1SA 12:24 Only fear the LORD, and serve to him in truth, and with your entire heart! For see what he magnified with you!
1SA 12:25 And if by evil you should do evil, then you and your king shall be added to your dead.
1SA 13:1 Saul was a son a year in his taking reign, and two years he reigned in Israel.
1SA 13:2 And Saul chose for himself three thousand men from the men of Israel. And there were with Saul two thousand in Michmash, and in the mountain of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. And the rest of the people he sent out, each man unto his tent.
1SA 13:3 And Jonathan struck the Nasib of the Philistines in the hill, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul trumped the trumpet in all the land, saying, The bondmen disregard us.
1SA 13:4 And all Israel heard, saying, Saul has smitten the Nasib of the Philistines; and Israel was put to shame by the Philistines. And the people ascended up after Saul in Gilgal.
1SA 13:5 And the Philistines gather together for war against Israel. And they ascend upon Israel for war - thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand by the edge of the sea in the multitude. And they ascend, and camp in Michmash, right opposite according to the south of Beth-aven.
1SA 13:6 And the man of Israel beheld that it was straitly to him, for him to not lead forward. And the people hid in the caves, and in the lairs, and in the rocks, and in the excavations, and in the pits.
1SA 13:7 And the ones passing over, passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And Saul still was in Gilgal, and all the people were receded after him.
1SA 13:8 And he stopped seven days, according to the testimony as Samuel said. And Samuel did not come unto Gilgal, and his people scattered from him.
1SA 13:9 And Saul said, Lead forward animals so that I should offer a whole burnt offering, and peace offerings. And he offered the whole burnt offering.
1SA 13:10 And it came to pass as he completed offering the whole burnt offering, that behold, Samuel arrived. And Saul came forth to meet him, to bless him.
1SA 13:11 And Samuel said, What have you done? And Saul said, For I saw that the people scattered from me, and you came not in the testimony of the days as you set in order, and that the Philistines were gathered together in Michmash,
1SA 13:12 and I said, Now the Philistines shall come down to me in Gilgal, and the face of the LORD I beseeched not - and I took control myself and offered the whole burnt offering.
1SA 13:13 And Samuel said to Saul, It is folly to you that you kept not my commandment which the LORD gave charge to you, as the LORD prepared your kingdom over Israel unto the eon.
1SA 13:14 And now your kingdom shall not stand with you. And the LORD shall seek for himself a man according to his heart. And the LORD shall give charge to him for ruler over his people, for you kept not as many things as the LORD gave charge to you.
1SA 13:15 And Samuel rose up, and went forth from out of Gilgal unto the hill of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people being found with him, about six hundred men.
1SA 13:16 And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people being found with him, stayed in Gibeah of Benjamin. And the Philistines camped in Michmash.
1SA 13:17 And men came forth to destroy from out of the field of the Philistines in three companies. The one company looking upon the way of Ophrah, towards the land of Shual.
1SA 13:18 And one company looking upon the way of Beth-horon. And one company looking upon the way of Gibeah, looking towards Gai, the Zeboim wilderness.
1SA 13:19 And a fabricator of iron was not found in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Perhaps the Hebrews will make a broadsword and spear.
1SA 13:20 And all Israel went down into the land of the Philistines, for each to forge his own reaping hook, and his utensil, and each his axe, and his sickle.
1SA 13:21 And the gathering of crops was prepared to harvest, but for the items there was a charge of three shekels for the tooth, and to the axe, and to the sickle - the support camp was the same.
1SA 13:22 And it came to pass in the days of the war, that there was not found a broadsword and spear in the hand of all the people with Saul and Jonathan - but it was found with Saul and Jonathan his son.
1SA 13:23 And the support camp of the Philistines went forth from the place on the other side of Michmash.
1SA 14:1 And came to pass a certain day that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the servant-lad carrying his weapons, Come, for we should pass over unto the support camp of the Philistines on that other side - but he reported not to his father.
1SA 14:2 And Saul settled upon the hill under the pomegranate in Migron. And the people with him were as six hundred men.
1SA 14:3 And Ahijah, son of Ahitub, brother of Ichabod, son of Phinehas, son of Eli the priest of the LORD in Shiloh was carrying the ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
1SA 14:4 And in the midst of the ford of which Jonathan sought to pass over into the support camp of the Philistines, was an extremity rock from here and an extremity rock from there - the name given to the one was Bozez, and the name given to the other was Seneh.
1SA 14:5 The one extremity from the north was going to Michmash, and the other extremity from the south was going to Gibeah.
1SA 14:6 And Jonathan said to the servant-lad carrying his weapons, Come, and we should pass over into the support camp of these uncircumcised, if perchance the LORD may commit to us; for the LORD is not holding back to deliver by many or by few.
1SA 14:7 And the one carrying his weapons said to him, You do all what ever your heart should will. Turn yourself! Behold, I am with you. As your heart my heart.
1SA 14:8 And Jonathan said, Behold, we pass over to the men, and we will roll down upon them.
1SA 14:9 If thus they should say to us, Abstain there until whenever we should approach to you. Then we shall stand by ourselves, and in no way shall we ascend unto them.
1SA 14:10 And If thus they should say to us, Ascend to us, then we will ascend! For the LORD has delivered them into our hands - this will be to us the sign.
1SA 14:11 And they entered both unto the support camp of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth from out of their burrows where they hide there.
1SA 14:12 And the men of the support camp responded to Jonathan, and to the one carrying his weapons. And they say, Ascend to us, and we will make known to you a thing! And Jonathan said to the one carrying his weapons, You ascend after me, for the LORD has delivered them into the hands of Israel!
1SA 14:13 And Jonathan ascended upon his hands, and upon his feet, and the one carrying his weapons after him. And they looked upon the person of Jonathan; and he struck among them; and the one carrying his weapons gave over after him.
1SA 14:14 And came to pass the first beating which Jonathan struck and the one carrying his weapons, was about twenty men by arrows, and by rock slinging, and by pebbles of the plain.
1SA 14:15 And came to pass a change of state in the camp, and in the field. And all the people in the support camp, and the ones being utterly destroyed - even they were startled. And the land was distraught, and there took place a change of state because of the LORD.
1SA 14:16 And the watchmen of Saul beheld in Gibeah of Benjamin; and behold, the camp was disturbed on this side and that side.
1SA 14:17 And Saul said to the people with him, You number yourselves indeed, and see who has gone from out of us! And they numbered, and behold, Jonathan was not found, and the one carrying his weapons.
1SA 14:18 And Saul said to Ahijah, Bring the ephod! For the ark of God was in that day before Israel
1SA 14:19 And it came to pass as Saul spoke to the priest, that the sound in the camp of the Philistines went out going louder, and it multiplied. And Saul said to the priest, Gather together your hands!
1SA 14:20 And Saul ascended, and all the people with him, and they came unto the battle. And behold, every man's broadsword was upon his neighbor, and an exceedingly great confusion.
1SA 14:21 And the bondmen being yesterday and the third day before with the Philistines, the ones ascending into the camp, turned themselves also to be with Israel, of the ones with Saul and Jonathan.
1SA 14:22 And every man of Israel hiding in mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines have fled. And they joined together also themselves after them to battle. And the LORD delivered Israel in that day. And the war went through Beth-aven. And all the people being with Saul were about ten thousand men.
1SA 14:23 And the war was dispersing into every city in mount Ephraim.
1SA 14:24 And Saul knew not through great ignorance in that day, and he gives curse to the people, saying, Accursed the man who shall eat bread until evening - so I will punish for my enemy. And not any of the people tasted bread - and all the land went unto Grove.
1SA 14:25 And at Grove was an apiary by the face of the field.
1SA 14:26 And the people entered into the apiary, and behold, honey went forth. And there was not the one turning his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the oath of the LORD.
1SA 14:27 And Jonathan heard not about the binding the people by an oath by his father. And he stretched out the tip of his staff in his hand, and dipped it into the honeycomb of the honey, and returned his hand to his mouth - and his eyes looked up.
1SA 14:28 And one of the people responded and said, By an oath your father bound the people, saying, Accursed be the man who shall eat bread today. And the people were faint.
1SA 14:29 And Jonathan knew, and said, My father rids the land; for behold my eyes see now that I tasted a little something of this honey.
1SA 14:30 But that if also the people in eating ate today of the spoils of their enemies which they found, now even greater would have been the calamity among the Philistines.
1SA 14:31 And he struck in that day of the Philistines many in Michmash. And the people tired exceedingly.
1SA 14:32 And the people advanced unto the spoils. And the people took flocks, and herds, and offspring of oxen, and slew them upon the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
1SA 14:33 And they reported to Saul, saying, the people sin against the LORD, to eat with the blood. And Saul said, You sinned. Roll indeed to me here a great stone.
1SA 14:34 And Saul said, Be dispersed among the people! And tell them, Bring here each his calf, and each his sheep, and slay them upon this stone and eat! And in no way should they sin against the LORD to eat with the blood. And all the people each brought the thing in his hand in the night, and slew them there.
1SA 14:35 And Saul built an altar to the LORD. By this Saul first began to build an altar to the LORD.
1SA 14:36 And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines this night, and we shall tear them into pieces until it should illuminate in the morning, and we should not leave behind among them a man. And they said, All that is good before you, you do! And the priest said, We should come forward here to God.
1SA 14:37 And Saul asked God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? Shall you deliver them into the hands of Israel? And he did not answer to him in that day.
1SA 14:38 And Saul said, Bring here all the corners of Israel; and know and behold by whom this sin has taken place today!
1SA 14:39 For as the LORD lives, the one delivering Israel, that if the answer be against Jonathan my son, to death he shall die. And there was not one answering of all the people.
1SA 14:40 And he said to every man of Israel, You will be for one part, and I and Jonathan my son will be for one part. And the people said to Saul, Do the good thing before you!
1SA 14:41 And Saul said, O LORD God of Israel, give Urim \& Thummim.manifestations! And Saul was chosen by lot and Jonathan, and the people went forth free.
1SA 14:42 And Saul said, Throw the lot between me and between Jonathan my son, whomever the LORD should choose by lot let him die! And they threw lots between him and between Jonathan, and Jonathan was chosen by lot.
1SA 14:43 And Saul said to Jonathan, Report to me what you have done! And Jonathan reported to him, saying, In tasting, I tasted a little honey with the tip of the staff in my hand, and behold, I die.
1SA 14:44 And Saul said to him, Thus God do to me, and thus add yet again, that in death Jonathan shall die today.
1SA 14:45 And the people said to Saul, Shall today the one executing this great deliverance in Israel die to death? Kindness; as lives the LORD, there shall not fall of the hair of his head upon the ground, for the mercy of God was performed in this day. And the people prayed for Jonathan in that day, and he did not die.
1SA 14:46 And Saul ascended from going after the Philistines. And the Philistines went forth unto their place.
1SA 14:47 And Saul obtained by lot to reign over Israel. And he waged war round about with all his enemies, against Moab, and against the sons of Ammon, and against the sons of Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. Wherever he turned, he was delivered.
1SA 14:48 And he acted powerfully, and struck Amalek, and delivered Israel from out of the hand of the ones trampling him.
1SA 14:49 And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchishua. And the names of his two daughters - the name of the first-born was Merab, and the name of the second was Michal.
1SA 14:50 And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name to his commander-in-chief was Abner, son of Ner, son of a member of the family of Saul.
1SA 14:51 And Kish was the father of Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of of Abiel.
1SA 14:52 And the war was strong against the Philistines all the days of Saul. And Saul in beholding any mighty man, and any man being a son of power, then gathered them to himself.
1SA 15:1 And Samuel said to Saul, the LORD has sent me to anoint you as king over Israel his people. And now hear the voice of the saying of the LORD!
1SA 15:2 Thus said the LORD of hosts, Now I shall punish what Amalek did to Israel, when he met him in the way ascending out of Egypt.
1SA 15:3 And now go! And you shall strike Amalek, and shall utterly destroy him, and all the ones of his. And you shall devote him to consumption, and all the things of his; and in no way shall you spare over him. And you shall kill from man and unto woman, and from infant and unto one nursing, and from calf and unto sheep, and from camel and unto donkey.
1SA 15:4 And Saul gave exhortation to the people. And he numbered them in Gilgal - two hundred thousand of the ranks of Israel, and ten thousand of the men of Judah.
1SA 15:5 And Saul came unto the city of Amalek, and laid in wait by the rushing stream.
1SA 15:6 And Saul said to the Kenite, You go forth, and turn away from the midst of Amalek, lest I add you with him! For you executed mercy with the sons of Israel in their ascending from out of Egypt. And the Kenite turned away from the midst of Amalek.
1SA 15:7 And Saul struck Amalek from Havilah unto Shur at the face of Egypt.
1SA 15:8 And he seized Agag king of Amalek alive; and all his people he utterly destroyed by the mouth of the broadsword.
1SA 15:9 And Saul and the people preserved Agag, and the good ones of the flocks, and of the herds, and of the foods, and of the vineyards, and all of the good things; and they did not want to utterly destroy them. And every work being a disgrace, and being treated with contempt they utterly destroyed.
1SA 15:10 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Samuel, saying,
1SA 15:11 I have changed my mind for Saul to reign as king, for he turned away from following after me; and my words he did not give heed to. And Samuel was depressed, and yelled to the LORD the entire night.
1SA 15:12 And Samuel rose early and went to meet Israel in the morning. And it was reported to Samuel, saying, Saul comes to Carmel, and behold, he has raised up to himself a hand, and turned his chariot, and went down into Gilgal.
1SA 15:13 And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you to the LORD. I established all as many things as the LORD spoke.
1SA 15:14 And Samuel said, And what is the sound of this flock in my ears, and the sound of the oxen of which I hear?
1SA 15:15 And Saul said, From out of Amalek I brought them, which the people procured, the most excellent of the flocks and of the herds, so as it may be a sacrifice to the LORD your God, and the rest I utterly destroyed.
1SA 15:16 And Samuel said to Saul, Spare, and I will report to you what the LORD spoke to me in the night! And he said to him, Speak!
1SA 15:17 And Samuel said to Saul, Were you not small, even you, before yourself for taking the lead of the chiefdom of the tribes of Israel? And the LORD anointed you for king over Israel.
1SA 15:18 And the LORD sent you on the journey. And he said to you, Go, and utterly destroy Amalek, the ones sinning against me! And you shall war against them until you should have finished them.
1SA 15:19 And why did you not hearken to the voice of the LORD, but advanced upon the spoils, and did the wicked thing before the LORD?
1SA 15:20 And Saul said to Samuel, Because of my hearing the sound of the people, and I went in the way in which the LORD sent me. And I brought Agag, king of Amalek, and I utterly destroyed Amalek.
1SA 15:21 And the people took of the spoils of the flocks and herds, the first-fruits of the offering for consumption, to sacrifice before the LORD our God in Gilgal.
1SA 15:22 And Samuel said, Does the LORD want whole burnt offerings and sacrifices, rather than the hearkening to the voice of the LORD? Behold, hearkening is above sacrifice, and heeding over the fat of rams.
1SA 15:23 For sin is as an omen, teraphim bring upon grief and miseries. Because you treated with contempt the word of the LORD, even the LORD treats you with contempt to not be king over Israel.
1SA 15:24 And Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned, for I violated the word of the LORD, and the saying by you; for I feared the people, and I hearkened to their voice.
1SA 15:25 And now, take away indeed my sin, and return with me, and I shall do obeisance to the LORD your God!
1SA 15:26 And Samuel said to Saul, I shall not return with you, for you treated with contempt the saying of the LORD, and the LORD shall treat you with contempt to not be king over Israel.
1SA 15:27 And Samuel turned his face to go forth. And Saul took hold of the border of his doubled garment, and tore it.
1SA 15:28 And Samuel said to him, the LORD tore your kingdom from Israel, from out of your hand today, and he shall give it to your neighbor, to the one good over you.
1SA 15:29 And Israel shall be divided into two, and he shall not turn, nor shall the holy one of Israel change his mind; for he is not as a man to change his mind.
1SA 15:30 And Saul said, I have sinned, but glorify me before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, and I will do obeisance to the LORD your God!
1SA 15:31 And Samuel returned behind Saul, and did obeisance to the LORD.
1SA 15:32 And Samuel said, Bring to me Agag king of Amalek. And Agag came forward to him trembling. And Agag said, Is death thus bitter?
1SA 15:33 And Samuel said to Agag, As your broadsword made women childless, thus your mother shall be made childless among women. And Samuel slew Agag in the presence of the LORD in Gilgal.
1SA 15:34 And Samuel went forth unto Ramah, and Saul ascended unto his house in Gibeah.
1SA 15:35 And Samuel proceeded not to see Saul until the day of his death, for Samuel mourned over Saul. And the LORD repented that Saul reigned over Israel.
1SA 16:1 And the LORD said to Samuel, Until when do you mourn for Saul, and I treat him with contempt to not reign over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and come! I shall send you to Jesse, unto Beth-lehem, for I have seen one among his sons to me for a king.
1SA 16:2 And Samuel said, How should I go, for Saul shall hear and shall kill me? And the LORD said, Take in your hand a heifer of the oxen! And you shall say, I come to sacrifice to the LORD.
1SA 16:3 And you shall call Jesse and his sons to the sacrifice, and I shall make known to you what you shall do. And you shall anoint to me whom ever I should tell to you.
1SA 16:4 And Samuel did all as much as the LORD said. And he came unto Beth-lehem, and he startled the elders of the city in the meeting him. And they said, Is your entrance for peace?
1SA 16:5 And he said, Peace; I come to sacrifice to the LORD. You should be sanctified and reclined with me today for the sacrifice! And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
1SA 16:6 And it came to pass in their entering, that he beheld Eliab, and said, None other than his anointed is before the LORD.
1SA 16:7 And the LORD said to Samuel, You should not look upon his appearance, nor unto the manner of his greatness, for I treat him with contempt; for not as a man shall look shall God see. For man shall see on the surface, but God shall see into the heart.
1SA 16:8 And Jesse called Abinadab, and he went by the face of Samuel. And he said, Nor this one the LORD chose.
1SA 16:9 And Jesse caused to pass by Shammah. And he said, Nor in this one the LORD chose.
1SA 16:10 And Jesse caused to pass by his seven sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The LORD chose not among these.
1SA 16:11 And Samuel said to Jesse, Have the boys ceased? And Jesse said, There yet is the lesser, behold, he tends among the flock. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and bring him! For in no way shall we lie down to eat until he comes here.
1SA 16:12 And he sent, and brought him. And he was ruddy with beauty of eyes, and good to the sight. And the LORD said to Samuel, Rise up, anoint him, for this one is he!
1SA 16:13 And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And spirit of the LORD sprang up upon David from that day and forward. And Samuel rose up, and went forth unto Ramah.
1SA 16:14 And spirit of the LORD left from Saul, and a ferocious spirit from the LORD smothered him.
1SA 16:15 And the servants of Saul said to him, Behold, a ferocious spirit from the LORD smothers you.
1SA 16:16 Let speak indeed, O lord, your bondmen before you! And let them seek to our lord a man knowing to strum with a lute! And it will be when the ferocious spirit be unto you by God, that he should strum with his lute, and it will be good to you.
1SA 16:17 And Saul said to his servants, Look indeed to me for a man rightly skilled for strumming, and bring him to me!
1SA 16:18 And answered one of his servant-lads, and said, Behold, I have seen the son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, and he knows to strum, and the man is discerning, and a warrior, and wise in word, and the man is good to the sight, and the LORD is with him.
1SA 16:19 And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, saying, Send out to me David your son, the one among your flock.
1SA 16:20 And Jesse took an ass, and put upon it a homer of breads, and a leather bag of wine, and one kid of the goats, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
1SA 16:21 And David entered to Saul, and stood before him, and loved him exceedingly. And he became to him the one lifting his weapons.
1SA 16:22 And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand indeed before me, for he found favor in my eyes!
1SA 16:23 And it came to pass in the being a ferocious spirit from God upon Saul, that David took the lute, and strummed with his hand. And Saul was refreshed, and it was good to him, and the ferocious spirit abstained from him.
1SA 17:1 And the Philistines gathered together their camps for war. And they gathered together at Shochoh of Judea, and camped in between Shochoh and between Azekah in Ephesdammin.
1SA 17:2 And Saul and the men of Israel gathered together, and they camped in the valley of the terebinth tree - these here and these there. And they deployed for war right opposite the Philistines.
1SA 17:3 And the Philistines stood upon the mountain here on that side. And Israel stood upon the mountain here on this side, and the canyon was between them.
1SA 17:4 And there came forth a mighty man from out of the battle array of the Philistines - Goliath was the name to him, from Gath. His height was four cubits and a span.
1SA 17:5 And a bronze helmet was upon his head, and he put on a chest plate of chain-work. And the weight of his chest plate was five thousand shekels of brass and iron.
1SA 17:6 And his leg coverings were of brass upon his legs, and a shield of brass was in between his shoulders.
1SA 17:7 And the shaft of his spear was as the weaver's beam of one weaving; and his lance was six hundred shekels of iron. And the one lifting his weapons went before him.
1SA 17:8 And he stood and yelled out to the battle array of Israel, and said to them, Why are you come forth to deploy for battle right opposite us? Am I not a Philistine, and you are Hebrews of Saul? Choose for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me!
1SA 17:9 And if he should be able to battle against me, and strike me, then we will be to you for bondmen. But if I shall overpower him, and shall strike him, you will be to us for bondmen, and you shall serve us.
1SA 17:10 And the Philistine said, Behold, I berate the battle array of Israel today in this day. Give to me a man, and we will fight both one on one!
1SA 17:11 And Saul and all Israel heard these sayings of the Philistine, and they were startled, and feared exceedingly.
1SA 17:12 And David was a son of an Ephrathite man; this one was from Beth-lehem Judah, and the name to him was Jesse, and to him were eight sons. And the man was old in days of Saul arriving in the year.
1SA 17:13 And the three elder sons of Jesse went after Saul unto the war. And the name of his sons having gone unto the war - Eliab his first-born, and the second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
1SA 17:14 And David himself was the younger - and the three elder went after Saul.
1SA 17:15 And David departed and returned from Saul to tend the sheep of his father in Beth-lehem.
1SA 17:16 And the Philistine came forward rising early and arriving late, and set up before Israel forty days.
1SA 17:17 And Jesse said to David his son, Take indeed to your brothers the ephah of this toasted grain, and these ten breads, and run unto the camp to your brothers.
1SA 17:18 And these ten cheeses of the milk you shall bring to the commander of a thousand, and you shall visit your brothers concerning their peace; and as much as they need you shall know.
1SA 17:19 And Saul, and they, and every man of Israel in the valley of the oak were warring with the Philistines.
1SA 17:20 And David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep for guard, and took the things, and departed as commanded to him by Jesse. And he came unto the battleline, and the force going forth unto the battle array.
1SA 17:21 And they shouted for the war, and Israel deployed; and the Philistines deployed at the opposite of the battle array.
1SA 17:22 And David relieved his items from himself unto the hand of the provisions officer, and ran to the battle array, and came and asked his brothers the things for peace.
1SA 17:23 And of his speaking with them, that behold, a man, the middle one, ascended ( the name given to him was Goliath the Philistine from Gath) from the battle array of the Philistines, and he spoke according to these words, and David heard.
1SA 17:24 And every man of Israel in their seeing the man, feared greatly, and fled from his face.
1SA 17:25 And a man from Israel said, Did you see the man, this one ascending? He ascended so as to berate Israel. And it will be a man who ever should strike him, the king shall enrich him in great riches, and will give his daughter to him, and the house of his father he will make free in Israel.
1SA 17:26 And David said to the men standing with him, saying, What shall be done to the man who ever should strike that Philistine, and should remove scorn from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine who berates the battle array of the living God?
1SA 17:27 And the people said to him according to this word, saying, Thus it shall be done to the man who ever should strike him.
1SA 17:28 And Eliab his older brother heard in his speaking to the men, and Eliab became angry with rage with David, and said, Why is this you came down, and for why did you leave those small sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride, and the evil of your heart; that because of seeing the war you came down.
1SA 17:29 And David said, What did I do now? Is it not a word?
1SA 17:30 And he turned from him unto another rank, and said thus. And they answered to him according to the word formerly.
1SA 17:31 And they heard the words of David which he spoke, and they were announced before Saul.
1SA 17:32 And David said to Saul, Let not the heart of my master be downcast over him - your bondman will go and do battle with this Philistine!
1SA 17:33 And Saul said to David, In no way shall you be able to go against this Philistine to battle against him; for you are a boy, and he is a man of war from his youth.
1SA 17:34 And David said to Saul, Your bondman was tending for his father among the flock. And whenever the lion came and the bear, and it took a sheep from out of the herd,
1SA 17:35 that I went forth after him, and struck him, and pulled it from out of his mouth. And if he rose up against me, I held his throat, and struck him, and put him to death.
1SA 17:36 And your bondman beat the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine will be as one of these who berates the battle array of the living God.
1SA 17:37 And David said, The LORD who rescued me from out of the hand of the lion, and from out of the hand of the bear, he will rescue me from out of the hand of this uncircumcised Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go, and the LORD will be with you!
1SA 17:38 And Saul clothed David with his uniform, and put a brass helmet upon his head, and clothed him with a chest plate.
1SA 17:39 And David tied on his sword upon himself. And David tired walking in the proceeding with them, for he was inexperienced. And David said to Saul, In no way shall I be able to go in these, for I have not tested them; and they removed them from him.
1SA 17:40 And he took his rod in his hand, and chose for himself five smooth stones from out of the rushing stream. And he put them in the shepherd's canteen being his, for a collection. And his sling was in his hand. And he went forward to the man, the Philistine.
1SA 17:41 And the Philistine went, going and approaching to David. And the man carrying the oblong shield was before him. And the Philistine looked.
1SA 17:42 And Goliath beheld David, and he treated him with contempt, for he was a boy, and was of ruddy color, with beauty of eyes.
1SA 17:43 And the Philistine said to David, Am I as a dog that you come with a rod and stones? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
1SA 17:44 And the Philistine said to David, Come here to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of heaven, and to the wild beasts of the earth!
1SA 17:45 And David said to the Philistine, You come to me with a broadsword, and with a spear, and with a shield. But I come to you in the name of the LORD God of hosts, the God of the battle array of Israel, whom you berate today.
1SA 17:46 And the LORD shall shut you up today by my hand, and I will kill you, and I will remove your head from you, and I will give your carcass and the carcasses of the camp of the Philistines in this day to the birds of the heaven, and to the wild beasts of the earth; and all the earth shall know that God is in Israel.
1SA 17:47 And all this assembly shall know that it is not by the broadsword, and spear the LORD delivers; for the war is of the LORD, and the LORD shall deliver you into our hands.
1SA 17:48 And the Philistine rose up, and went, and approached to meet with David. And David hastened, and came forth even himself for the battle array for meeting the Philistine.
1SA 17:49 And David stretched out his hand into the canteen, and took from there one stone, and slung. And he struck the Philistine in his forehead. And the stone penetrated unto his forehead; and he fell upon his face upon the ground.
1SA 17:50 And David powered over the Philistine with the sling, and with the stone in that day. And he struck the Philistine, and he killed him; and a broadsword was not in the hand of David.
1SA 17:51 And David ran and stood over him, and took his broadsword, and pulled it out of its sheath, and put him to death, and removed his head. And the Philistines beheld that their mighty one has died, and they fled.
1SA 17:52 And the men of Israel and Judah rose up, and shouted, and pursued after the Philistines unto the entrance of Gath, and unto the gate of Ekron. And the slain of the Philistines fell in the way of the gates, and unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
1SA 17:53 And the men of Israel returned turning aside going after the Philistines, and they plundered their camps.
1SA 17:54 And David took the head of the Philistine, and he brought it unto Jerusalem. And his weapons he put in his tent.
1SA 17:55 And as Saul saw David going forth for meeting the Philistine, he said to Abner the ruler of the force, Whose son is this young man, Abner? And Abner responded and said, your soul should live, O my lord king, I know not.
1SA 17:56 And the king said, You ask whose son this young man is?
1SA 17:57 And as David returned having struck the Philistine, Abner received him, and brought him in before Saul. And the head of the Philistine was in his hand.
1SA 17:58 And Saul said to him, Whose son are you young man? And David said, A son of your bondman Jesse of Beth-lehem.
1SA 18:1 And it came to pass as he finished speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was bound together to the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him according to his own soul.
1SA 18:2 And Saul received him in that day, and did not allow him to return to the house of his father.
1SA 18:3 And Jonathan and David ordained a covenant, for he loved him according to his soul.
1SA 18:4 And Jonathan took off the outer garment upon him, and gave it to David, and his uniform, even unto his broadsword, and the bow, and his belt.
1SA 18:5 And David went forth perceiving in all what ever Saul sent him. And Saul placed him over the men of war. And he pleased in the eyes of all the people, and also even in the eyes of the bondman of Saul.
1SA 18:6 And it came to pass in his entering, when David returned striking the Philistine, that the women came forth joining in a dance and singing, to meet Saul the king from out of all the cities of Israel, with tambourines, and with joyfulness, and with cymbals.
1SA 18:7 And the women took the lead playing, and said, Saul struck his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
1SA 18:8 And Saul was provoked to anger, and the thing appeared as an exceeding sorry state before Saul concerning this word. And he said, They gave to David the ten thousands, and to me they gave the thousands. And what is there to him besides the kingdom?
1SA 18:9 And Saul was suspecting David from that day and beyond.
1SA 18:10 And it came to pass of the next day, that a ferocious spirit from God fell upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David strummed with his hand as according to each day - and the wooden spear was in the hand of Saul.
1SA 18:11 And Saul lifted the wooden spear, and said, I will strike into David and into the wall. And David turned aside from his presence twice.
1SA 18:12 And Saul feared from the face of David, for the LORD was with him, and left from Saul.
1SA 18:13 And Saul removed him from himself, and placed him to himself as a commander of a thousand; and he went forth and entered before the people.
1SA 18:14 And David was perceiving in all his ways; and the LORD was with him.
1SA 18:15 And Saul beheld as he perceived exceedingly, and was cautious of his person.
1SA 18:16 And all Israel and Judah loved David, for he entered and went forth before the face of the people.
1SA 18:17 And Saul said to David, Behold, my daughter, the elder, Merab, I will give her to you for a wife; only become to me for a son of power, and wage war of the battles of the LORD! And Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be on him!
1SA 18:18 And David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is the life of the kin of my father in Israel, that I shall be an in-law of the king?
1SA 18:19 And it came to pass in the time of the giving Merab daughter of Saul to David, that he gave her to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.
1SA 18:20 And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David. And it was reported to Saul, and the thing was pleasing in his eyes.
1SA 18:21 And Saul said, I will give her to him, and she shall be to him for an obstacle, and the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him. And Saul said to David a second time, You shall ally to me by marriage today.
1SA 18:22 And Saul gave charge to his servants, saying, You speak in private to David, saying, Behold, the king's want is towards you, and all his servants love you, and thus you be allied by marriage to the king!
1SA 18:23 And the servants of Saul spoke into the ears of David these things. And David said, Is it the light thing in your eyes to be allied by marriage to the king? And I am a humble man, and not esteemed?
1SA 18:24 And the servants of Saul reported to him according to these words which David spoke.
1SA 18:25 And Saul said, Thus shall you say to David, The king does not want a dowry, but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge against the enemies of the king. And Saul devised to put David into the hands of the Philistines.
1SA 18:26 And the servants of Saul told to David these things. And the word was straightened in the eyes of David to be allied by marriage to the king. And the days were not fulfilled.
1SA 18:27 And David rose up and went, he and his men, and struck among the Philistines two hundred men; and he brought their foreskins, and fulfilled them to the king, and becomes allied by marriage to the king. And Saul gives to him Michal his daughter for a wife.
1SA 18:28 And Saul beheld, and he knew that the LORD was with David. And Michal his daughter, and all Israel loved him.
1SA 18:29 And Saul proceeded to fear from before David still. And Saul became hating David all the days.
1SA 18:30 And the rulers of the Philistines came forth. And it came to pass from their fit expedition, that David perceived above all the bondmen of Saul. And his name was greatly esteemed.
1SA 19:1 And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, to put David to death.
1SA 19:2 And Jonathan, the son of Saul, took to David exceedingly. And Jonathan reported to David, saying, Saul my father seeks to put you to death. And now be on guard tomorrow morning, and hide and stay in secret!
1SA 19:3 And I will come forth and stand next to my father in the field of which ever you should be there, and I will speak concerning you to my father; and I will see the thing what ever might be, and I will report to you.
1SA 19:4 And Jonathan spoke good things concerning David to Saul his father. And he said to him, Let the king not sin against his bondman David! For he sinned not against you, and his works are exceedingly proper,
1SA 19:5 and he put his life in his hand, and struck the Philistine, and the LORD executed a great deliverance; and all Israel beheld and rejoiced. And why do you sin against innocent blood, to put to death David without charge?
1SA 19:6 And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan. And Saul swore by an oath, saying, As the LORD lives shall he die?
1SA 19:7 And Jonathan called David, and reported to him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as yesterday and the third day before.
1SA 19:8 And the war proceeded to take place. And David grew strong, and waged war against the Philistines. And he struck them an exceedingly great beating, and they fled from his face.
1SA 19:9 And a ferocious spirit of the LORD came upon Saul from the LORD, and he was in his house sitting, and a spear was in his hand. And David strummed with his hands.
1SA 19:10 And Saul sought to strike David with a wooden spear. And David departed from the face of Saul, and he struck with the spear into the wall. And David withdrew, and was delivered in that night.
1SA 19:11 And Saul sent messengers to the house of David, to guard him, so as to put him to death in the morning. And it was reported to David by Michal his wife, saying, If you shall not preserve your life this night, tomorrow you shall be put to death.
1SA 19:12 And Michal let down David through the window. And he went forth, and fled, and escaped.
1SA 19:13 And Michal took the statues, and put them upon the bed; and a round pillow of hair of goats she put by his head, and covered them with a cloak.
1SA 19:14 And Saul sent messengers to take David. And she spoke of him to be unwell.
1SA 19:15 And Saul sent messengers to see David, saying, Lead him upon the bed to me, to put him to death.
1SA 19:16 And the messengers come, and behold, there were the statues upon the bed, and a round pillow of hair of the goats by his head.
1SA 19:17 And Saul said to Michal, Why thus did you mislead me, and send out my enemy, and he came through safe? And Michal said to Saul, He said to me, Send me, for if not I shall put you to death!
1SA 19:18 And David fled, and was delivered, and comes to Samuel in Ramah, and reports to him all as much as Saul did to him. And Samuel and David went and stayed in Naioth in Ramah.
1SA 19:19 And it was reported to Saul, saying, Behold, David is in Naioth in Ramah.
1SA 19:20 And Saul sent messengers to take David. And coming they saw the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel stood ordained over them, and spirit of God became upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied, - even they.
1SA 19:21 And it was reported to Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they prophesied - even they. And Saul proceeded to send messengers a third time, and they prophesied - even they.
1SA 19:22 And Saul was enraged in anger, and went - even himself unto Ramah. And he comes unto well of the threshing-floor in Sechu. And he asked, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And they said, Behold, in Naioth in Ramah.
1SA 19:23 And he went from there into Naioth in Ramah. And there came upon him spirit of God, and he went going, and prophesied unto his coming unto Naioth in Ramah.
1SA 19:24 And he took off his clothes, and he prophesied before Samuel. And he fell naked that entire day, and that entire night. Because of this they said, Is also Saul among the prophets?
1SA 20:1 And David ran away from Naioth in Ramah, and came before Jonathan, and said, What have I done? and what is my offence? and how have I sinned before your father, that he anxiously seeks my life?
1SA 20:2 And Jonathan said to him, Far be it to you; in no way shall you die. Behold, in no way shall my father do a thing great or small, and shall not reveal it in my ear. And why shall my father hide from me this thing? This is not so?
1SA 20:3 And David answered to Jonathan, and said, In perceiving, your father sees that I have found favor in your eyes; and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he should prefer him! But as lives the LORD, and as lives your soul, that as I said, the space is filled up between me and between your father unto death.
1SA 20:4 And Jonathan said to David, What does your soul desire, and what should I do for you?
1SA 20:5 And David said to Jonathan, Behold indeed, it is a new moon tomorrow, and I in sitting should sit down with the king to eat. And you shall send me, and I shall be hid in the plain until afternoon.
1SA 20:6 If in numbering your father should number me missing, then you shall say, In asking pardon David asks pardon of me to run unto Beth-lehem his city; for the sacrifice of the feast days is there for the entire tribe.
1SA 20:7 If thus he should say, Fine; then it will be peace to your bondman. And if harshly he should answer to you, know that evil is completed by him!
1SA 20:8 And you will do mercy with your bondman; for you brought your bondman into a covenant of the LORD with yourself. And if there is injustice in your bondman, you put me to death! And why thus should you bring me unto your father?
1SA 20:9 And Jonathan said, Far be it to you; for if in knowing I should know that the evil is completed by my father to come against you, then would I not report it to you?
1SA 20:10 And David said to Jonathan, Who shall report to me if your father should answer harshly?
1SA 20:11 And Jonathan said to David, Go! for we should go out in the field. And they went forth both into the field.
1SA 20:12 And Jonathan said to David, The LORD God of Israel knows that I will question my father according to a third time, and behold, if it should be good for David, then in no way shall I send to you in the field.
1SA 20:13 Thus God do to Jonathan, and thus add to it, if I will not bringto tell the evils unto you, and will uncover your ear, and will send you, and you will go in peace. And the LORD will be with you, as he was with my father.
1SA 20:14 And if during my living you shall do mercy of the LORD with me, even if in death I should die;
1SA 20:15 you shall not remove your mercy from my house unto the eon. And not even in the removing by the LORD of the enemies of David, each from the face of the earth,
1SA 20:16 shall Jonathan be lifted away from the house of David, even if the LORD should require it from the hands of the enemies of David.
1SA 20:17 And Jonathan proceeded to swear by an oath to David, because of the loving him - for he loved the soul loving him.
1SA 20:18 And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow is a new moon; and overseeing your chair shall be watched.
1SA 20:19 And you shall do it three times, and you shall watch, and shall come into the place where you may hide there in the day of the deed, and shall sit down by that stone.
1SA 20:20 And I shall be three times in the shooting darts, and sending them forth to the mark.
1SA 20:21 And behold, I shall send the servant-lad, saying, Come find to me the dart! If I should say to the servant-lad, Here is the dart away from you here, take it and come! that peace shall be to you, and there is not a bad communication - as lives the LORD.
1SA 20:22 But if thus I should say to the young man, Here is the dart, away from you and beyond; Go! for the LORD sends you out.
1SA 20:23 And concerning the word which we have spoken, I and you, behold, the LORD is witness between me and you unto the eon.
1SA 20:24 And David was hidden in the field. And it became a new moon, and the king comes unto the table to eat.
1SA 20:25 And the king sat upon his chair, as once and once before that, upon the chair by the wall. And Jonathan went beforehand by him, and Abner sat by the side of Saul. And the place of David was watched.
1SA 20:26 And Saul did not say anything in that day, for he said, A coincidence, for he appears to not be clean; for he has not cleansed himself.
1SA 20:27 And it came to pass in the next day of the month, the second day, and the place of David was watched. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, Why is it that the son of Jesse has not come,, even yesterday, and today, unto the table?
1SA 20:28 And Jonathan answered Saul, and said, David asks pardon of me, so as to go to Beth-lehem his city.
1SA 20:29 And he said, Send me indeed, for we have a sacrifice of the tribe in the city, and my brothers gave charge for me. And now if I have found favor in your eyes, I will go forth indeed and see my brothers. On account of this he does not come unto the table of the king.
1SA 20:30 And Saul was enraged in anger at Jonathan exceedingly, and said to him, O son of a deserting woman; for do you not know that you are a partner to the son of Jesse for your shame, and for the shame of uncovering your mother?
1SA 20:31 For all the days which the son of Jesse lives upon the earth, you shall not be prepared, you nor your kingdom. Now then, send and bring the young man, for he is a son of death!
1SA 20:32 And Jonathan responded to Saul his father, and said, Why does he die? What has he done?
1SA 20:33 And Saul lifted up the spear against Jonathan to put him to death. And Jonathan knew that this evil has been completed by his father to put David to death.
1SA 20:34 And Jonathan jumped up from the table in anger of rage, and did not eat bread on the second day of the month; for he was devastated for David, for his father planned to finish him off.
1SA 20:35 And it became morning, and Jonathan came forth into the field as he gave order for the testimony to David, and the small servant-lad was with him.
1SA 20:36 And he said to the servant-lad, You run and find for me the darts which I shall shoot! And the servant-lad ran. And he shot the arrow, and it passed by him.
1SA 20:37 And the servant-lad came unto the place of the arrows which Jonathan shot. And Jonathan yelled out after the boy, and said, The dart is there away from you and beyond.
1SA 20:38 And Jonathan yelled out after his servant-lad, saying, In hastening, you hasten, for you should not stand! And the servant-lad of Jonathan gathered up the darts, and brought the darts to his master.
1SA 20:39 And the servant-lad did not know anything - only Jonathan and David knew the thing.
1SA 20:40 And Jonathan gave his weapons to his servant-lad, and said to his servant-lad, Go, enter into the city!
1SA 20:41 And as the servant-lad entered the city, then David rose up from the chest, and fell upon his face upon the ground, and did obeisance to him three times. And each kissed his dear one, and each wept over his dear one, unto David exceeded of a great finale.
1SA 20:42 And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace! And as we swore by an oath, both of us in the name of the LORD, saying, The LORD will be witness between me and you, and between my seed and your seed unto the eon. And David rose up and went forth. And Jonathan entered into the city.
1SA 21:1 And David comes to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech is startled in the meeting David. And he said to him, Why is it that you are alone, and no one is with you?
1SA 21:2 And David said to the priest Ahimelech, The king gave charge to me a thing today, and said to me, Let no one know anything concerning the matter for which I send you, and for what I have given charge to you. And to the servants I testified in the place, in the one being called - Phalanni Alomni.
1SA 21:3 And now, if there is in your hand five breads, put into my hand the thing being found.
1SA 21:4 And the priest responded to David, and said, There are not profane breads in my hand, but there are only holy breads. If the servants were having been kept from a woman, then they shall eat.
1SA 21:5 And David answered to the priest, and said to him, Yes, even from a woman we have been at a distance from yesterday and the third day before. In my coming forth for the journey all the servants have been purified. But this journey is profane, for today it shall be sanctified on account of my weapons.
1SA 21:6 And Ahimelech the priest gave to him breads of the place setting, for there was not a bread there, but only breads of the presence, the ones being removed before the presence of the LORD, so as to place near the hot breads in which day he took them.
1SA 21:7 And there was a certain one there of the bondmen of Saul in that day, being held before the LORD; and the name to him was Doeg, the Edomite, feeding the mules of Saul.
1SA 21:8 And David said to Ahimelech, See if there is here under your hand a spear or broadsword! for my broadsword and my weapons I have not taken in my hand, for the matter of the king was in haste.
1SA 21:9 And the priest said, Behold, the broadsword of Goliath the Philistine whom you struck in the valley of Ela. And it is wrapped in a cloak behind the shoulder-piece. If this you take for yourself, take, for there is not another besides it here! And David said, There is not anything as it - give it to me!
1SA 21:10 And he gave it to him. And David rose up and fled in that day from the presence of Saul. And David came to Achish king of Gath.
1SA 21:11 And the servants of Achish said to him, Is this not David the king of the land? Did not the women joining in a dance to this one taking the lead, saying, Saul struck his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
1SA 21:12 And David put these words in his heart, and feared exceedingly before the face of Achish king of Gath.
1SA 21:13 And he changed his countenance before them, and carried about with his hands, and fell upon the doors of the gateway, and his saliva flowed down upon his beard.
1SA 21:14 And Achish said to his servants, Behold, you see a man overcome by convulsions! Why did you bring him to me?
1SA 21:15 Or do I feel a want of ones overcome by convulsions that you carry him being possessed unto me? Shall this one enter into my house?
1SA 22:1 And David went forth from there, and came through safe, and comes to the cave of Odollam. And his brothers hear, and all the house of his father, and they went down to him there.
1SA 22:2 And gathered together with him every one in necessity, and every debtor, and all in severe pain of the soul; and he was over them, taking the lead. And there were with him about four hundred men.
1SA 22:3 And David went forth from there unto Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, Let indeed my father and my mother be by you, until whenever I know what God shall do to me.
1SA 22:4 And he appealed to the person of the king of Moab. And they dwelt with him all the days of David being in the citadel.
1SA 22:5 And Gad the prophet said to David, Do not settle in the citadel. Go, and you shall come into the land of Judah! And David went, and came and settled in the city Hareth.
1SA 22:6 And Saul heard that David was known, and the men with him. And Saul stayed on the hill by the plowed field in Ramah, and the spear was in his hand, and all his servants stood beside him.
1SA 22:7 And Saul said to his servants standing beside him, Hear indeed, O sons of Benjamin! Shall truly the son of Jesse give to you all fields and vineyards? And will he arrange you all as commanders of hundreds, and commanders of thousands?
1SA 22:8 For you are all situated together against me, and is there not one uncovering my ear in that my son ordains a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is not one toiling for me from among you and uncovering my ear, that my son roused up my bondman against me for an enemy, as it is this day?
1SA 22:9 And Doeg the Edomite answered, the one placed over the mules of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming into Nob, to Ahimelech son of Ahitub the priest.
1SA 22:10 And he asked him concerning God, and he gave to him provisions; and the broadsword of Goliath the Philistine he gave to him.
1SA 22:11 And the king sent to call Ahimelech son of Ahitub, the priest, and all the sons of his father, of the priests in Nob. And they all came to the king.
1SA 22:12 And Saul said, Hear indeed, O son of Ahitub! And he said, Behold, it is I, speak, O master!
1SA 22:13 And Saul said to him, Why did you agree against me, you and the son of Jesse, for you to give him bread, and a broadsword, and should ask on his account of God, to put him against me for an enemy, as he is this day?
1SA 22:14 And Ahimelech answered to the king, and said, And who among all your bondmen is trustworthy as David, and son-in-law of the king, and one in charge of all your mobilization order, and honorable in your house?
1SA 22:15 Or today have I begun to ask for him through God? By no means. Let not the king impute concerning the word of his bondman, and against the entire house of my father, for your bondman knew not in any of these things, a matter small or great.
1SA 22:16 And king Saul said, To death Ahimelech should die - you and all the house of your father.
1SA 22:17 And the king said to the bodyguards standing by him, Lead forward, and put to death the priests of the LORD! For their hand is with David, for they knew that he fled, and they did not uncover my ear. And the servants of the king wanted not to bear their hands to encounter against the priests of the LORD.
1SA 22:18 And the king said to Doeg, You turn, and encounter the priests! And Doeg the Edomite turned, and put to death the priests of the LORD in that day - eighty-five men, all bearing an ephod.
1SA 22:19 And Nob, the city of the priests, he struck with the mouth of the broadsword; from man unto woman, from infant and unto one nursing, and from calf, and donkey, and sheep, he struck by the mouth of the broadsword.
1SA 22:20 And one son of Ahimelech son of Ahitub came through safe. And the name to him was Abiathar; and he fled after David.
1SA 22:21 And Abiathar reported to David that Saul put to death all the priests of the LORD.
1SA 22:22 And David said to Abiathar, For I knew in that day, that Doeg the Edomite, that in reporting he would report to Saul. I am the one at fault for the lives of all the house of your father.
1SA 22:23 You sit down with me! Do not fear! For where ever I seek for my life, I shall seek also a place for your life - for you are guarded by me.
1SA 23:1 And they reported to David, saying, Behold, the Philistines wage war in Keilah, and they tear in pieces the threshing-floors.
1SA 23:2 And David asked of the LORD, saying, Shall I go and strike these Philistines? And the LORD said to David, Go, and you shall strike the Philistines, and you shall deliver Keilah!
1SA 23:3 And the men of David said to him, Behold, we here in Judea fear. And how will it be if we should go into Keilah unto the valleys of the Philistines?
1SA 23:4 And David proceeded yet to ask by the LORD. And the LORD answered to him, and said to him, Rise up, and go down unto Keilah! For I deliver up the Philistines into your hands.
1SA 23:5 And David went, and the men with him, unto Keilah. And he waged war against the Philistines, and they fled from his face, and he took away their cattle, and struck them with a great beating. And David delivered the ones dwelling in Keilah.
1SA 23:6 And it came to pass in the fleeing of Abiathar the son of Ahimelech to David in Keilah, that he came down having an ephod in his hand.
1SA 23:7 And it was reported to Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God has sold him into my hands; for he is locked up, having entered into a city of doors and bars.
1SA 23:8 And Saul exhorted all the people to go down for war to Keilah, to band together against David and his men.
1SA 23:9 And David knew that Saul did not remain silent concerning him for evil. And David said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod!
1SA 23:10 And David said, O LORD, the God of Israel, in hearing hearken to your bondman! For Saul seeks to come against Keilah, to utterly destroy the city on account of me.
1SA 23:11 Shall it be locked up? And now, shall Saul come down as your bondman heard, O LORD, the God of Israel? Report to your bondman! And the LORD said, It shall be locked up.
1SA 23:12 And David said, Shall the ones from Keilah deliver up me and my men into the hand of Saul? And the LORD said, They shall deliver up.
1SA 23:13 And David rose up, and his men - about six hundred. And they went forth from Keilah, and went where ever they could go. And it was reported to Saul that David went safe from Keilah; and he spared to come forth.
1SA 23:14 And David stayed in the wilderness, in the narrow passes. And he settled in the mountain, in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him all the days. And the LORD did not deliver him into his hands.
1SA 23:15 And David knew that Saul went forth to seek him. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph in New.
1SA 23:16 And Jonathan son of Saul rose up, and went to David in New, and he fortified his hands in the LORD.
1SA 23:17 And he said to him, Do not fear! For in no way shall the hand of Saul my father find you. And you shall reign over Israel, and I will be to you for second; and Saul my father knows so.
1SA 23:18 And both ordained a covenant before the LORD. And David settled in New, and Jonathan went forth to his house.
1SA 23:19 And the Ziphites ascended up to Saul, unto the hill, saying, Behold is not David hid by us in the narrows in New, in the hill of Hachilah at the right of Jeshimon?
1SA 23:20 And now, every desire of the soul of the king - let him go down into the descent to us! They are being uncovered into the hands of the king.
1SA 23:21 And Saul said to them, Being blessed are you to the LORD; for you toiled on account of me.
1SA 23:22 You should go indeed, and prepare yet, and know and see his place where his foot is, quickly, there in that place of which you spoke, lest at any time he should trick you!
1SA 23:23 And look, and know of all the places where he hides there, and return to me at ready, and I shall go with you! And it will be if he is in the land, that I shall search him out among all the thousands of Judah.
1SA 23:24 And the Ziphites rose up, and went before Saul. And David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, to the west at the right of Jeshimon.
1SA 23:25 And Saul went, and his men, to seek David. And they reported to David. And he went down into the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard, and pursued unto the wilderness of Maon after David.
1SA 23:26 And Saul went, and his men, by the side of this mountain, and David, and his men, by the other side of this mountain. And David was sheltering to go from the face of Saul. And Saul and his men camped by David and his men - to seize them.
1SA 23:27 And a messenger came to Saul saying, Hasten, and come here, for the Philistines made an attack against the land.
1SA 23:28 And Saul returned to not pursue after David, and went to meet the Philistines. On account of this that place is called, The Portioned Rock.
1SA 23:29 And David ascended from there, and settled in the narrows of En Gedi.
1SA 24:1 And it came to pass as Saul returned from going after the Philistines, that they reported to him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi.
1SA 24:2 And he took with himself three thousand chosen men from out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men by the face of the trap of the hinds.
1SA 24:3 And he came unto the herds of the flocks upon the way, and a cave was there; and Saul entered to make preparation. And David and his men were in the cave inside sitting down in it.
1SA 24:4 And the men of David said to him, Behold, this is the day which the LORD spoke to you, Behold, I give your enemy into your hands, and you shall do to him as is good in your eyes. And David rose up, and removed the border of the doubled garment of Saul clandestinely.
1SA 24:5 And it came to pass after these things, that David's heart struck him, for he removed the border of his double garment.
1SA 24:6 And David said to his men, By no means be it to me from the LORD if I should do this thing to my master, to the anointed one of the LORD, to bear my hand against him, for this is the anointed one of the LORD.
1SA 24:7 And David persuaded his men by words, and he did not give in to them to rise up and to put Saul to death. And Saul rose up and went forth into the way from the cave.
1SA 24:8 And David rose up after him, from out of the cave. And David yelled after Saul, saying, O Master, O king. And Saul looked up to his rear. And David bowed upon his face unto the ground, and did obeisance to him.
1SA 24:9 And David said to Saul, Why do you hearken to the words of the people, saying, Behold, David seeks your life?
1SA 24:10 Behold, in this day your eyes have seen how the LORD delivered you today into my hands in the cave; and I did not want to kill you, and I spared you. And I said, I will not bear my hand against my master, for this one is the anointed one of the LORD.
1SA 24:11 And, O my father, even behold, the border of your doubled garment in my hand - I removed the border of your doubled garment, and did not kill you. And know and behold today! that there is not evil in my hand, nor annulment, nor impiety, and I have not sinned against you. But you bind my life to take it.
1SA 24:12 May the LORD judge between me and you, and may the LORD render justice to me because of you - but my hand will not be against you.
1SA 24:13 As the ancient parable says, Trespass shall come forth from the lawless ones - but my hand will not be against you.
1SA 24:14 And now, after whom do you go forth, O king of Israel? After whom do you pursue? after a dog having died, or after one flea?
1SA 24:15 May the LORD be for a judge and magistrate between me and you. Yes, may the LORD behold, and may he judge my case, and may he adjudicate for me from out of your hand.
1SA 24:16 And it came to pass, as David completed speaking these things to Saul, that Saul said, Is this your voice, son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
1SA 24:17 And he said to David, You are a just one over me, for you recompensed to me good things, but I recompensed to you evils.
1SA 24:18 And you have reported today what good things you did to me, as how the LORD locked me into your hands today, and you did not kill me.
1SA 24:19 And that if anyone may find his enemy in affliction, and shall send him forth in a good way, even the LORD will recompense to him good things, as you have done today.
1SA 24:20 And now, behold, I know that in reigning you shall reign, and the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand.
1SA 24:21 And now swear by an oath to me according to the LORD that you should not utterly destroy my seed after me, and you should not obliterate my name from the house of my father.
1SA 24:22 And David swore by an oath to Saul. And Saul went forth unto his house. And David and his men ascended unto Messara the narrows.
1SA 25:1 And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered together, and lamented him, and entombed him in his house in Ramah. And David rose up, and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
1SA 25:2 And there was a man in Maon, and his work was in Carmel; and the man was exceedingly great, and to this man were three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats. And it came to pass during the shearing of his flock in Carmel.
1SA 25:3 And the name to the man was Nabal - folly., and the name to his wife was Abigail. And his wife had good understanding, and was good to the sight, exceedingly. And the man was recalcitrant, and wicked in practices, and the man was churlish.
1SA 25:4 And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal the Carmelite was shearing his flock.
1SA 25:5 And David sent ten servants, and said to the servants, Ascend to Carmel, and come to Nabal, and ask him in my name the things for peace!
1SA 25:6 And you shall say thus, For a season may it be for you being in health, and your house, and all the things of yours being in health.
1SA 25:7 And now, behold, I hear that your shepherds shear for you now, the ones who were with us in the wilderness, and we did not detain them, and we did not give charge to them in anything all the days of their being in Carmel.
1SA 25:8 Ask of your servants, and they will tell you! And let us your servants find favor in your eyes! For upon a good day we come. Give indeed what ever your hand should find to your servants, and to your son David!
1SA 25:9 And the servants of David come, and speak to Nabal according to all these things in the name of David.
1SA 25:10 And Nabal jumped up, and responded to the servants of David, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? Today there are bondmen multiplying, each withdrawing from the presence of his master.
1SA 25:11 And shall I take my breads, and my wine, and my things offered in sacrifices which I have sacrificed to the ones shearing for me the sheep, and give them to men whom I do not know from what place they are?
1SA 25:12 And the servants of David turned back unto their way; and they turned, and came, and announced to David according to all these words.
1SA 25:13 And David said to his men, Let each man tie on his sword! And David even himself tied on his sword. And they ascended after David - about four hundred men; and two hundred stayed by the equipment.
1SA 25:14 And one of the servants reported it to Abigail wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers from out of the wilderness to bless our master, and he turned aside from them.
1SA 25:15 And the men were good to us, exceedingly. And they did not detain us, nor charged to us anything all the days which we were by them, in our being in the field.
1SA 25:16 They were as a wall for us, both day and night, all the days of our being with them, and tending the flocks.
1SA 25:17 And now perceive and see what you shall do! For evil is completed against our master, and against his house. And he is a son of pestilence, and there is not a speaking to him.
1SA 25:18 And Abigail hastened, and took two hundred breads, and two receptacles of wine, and five sheep prepared, and five ephahs of toasted grains, and one homer of dried grapes, and two hundred dried clusters of figs, and put them upon the donkeys.
1SA 25:19 And she said to her servants, You go forth in front of me! And behold, I come after you. But to her husband Nabal she did not report.
1SA 25:20 And it came to pass of her being mounted upon the donkey, that she went down in the protection of the mountain. And behold, David and his men went down to meet her; and she met them.
1SA 25:21 And David said, Perhaps it was unjust I guarded all the things of Nabal in the wilderness, and asked not to take of any of his things - nothing. And he recompensed to me evil for good.
1SA 25:22 Thus God do to the enemies of David, and thus may he add, if I leave behind of all of the ones of Nabal unto the morning of ones urinating against the wall.
1SA 25:23 And Abigail saw David. And hastening she came down from the donkey, and fell before David upon her face, and did obeisance to him upon the ground.
1SA 25:24 And she fell by his feet, and said, On me, O my lord, be the injustice. Let indeed your bondwoman speak into your ears, and you hear the words of your bondwoman!
1SA 25:25 Let not indeed my master put his heart against this pestilent man, against Nabal! For according to his name, thus is he Nabal. His name, and folly is with him. And I your bondwoman did not see the servants of my master whom you sent.
1SA 25:26 And now, O my lord, as the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, as the LORD restrained you to not come against innocent blood, and to deliver your hand for yourself, that now may your enemies become as Nabal, and the ones seeking bad things against my lord.
1SA 25:27 And now receive this blessing which your bondwoman has brought to my master! And you shall give it to the servants standing beside my master.
1SA 25:28 Take away indeed the violation of your bondwoman! For in doing, the LORD shall make a trustworthy house for my master, for the LORD shall wage the battle for my master, and evil shall not be found in you at any time.
1SA 25:29 And if a man should rise up to pursue you, and seeking your life, then the life of my master will be bound in a bond of life by the LORD God; and the life of your enemies, you shall sling as in the midst of the sling.
1SA 25:30 And it shall be whenever the LORD shall do to my master, according to all good things which he spoke concerning you, that the LORD shall give charge to you for taking the lead over Israel.
1SA 25:31 Then this abomination and obstacle shall not be against your heart, to my master, to pour out innocent blood without charge, and to deliver the hand of my master for himself. And the LORD shall do good to my master, and you shall remember your bondwoman, to do well to her.
1SA 25:32 And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who sent you in this day to meet me.
1SA 25:33 And blessed be your manner, and blessed be you, to detain me today in this, to not come for blood, and to deliver my hand from myself.
1SA 25:34 Only as lives the LORD God of Israel, who detained me today of doing evil to you, that unless you hastened and came to meet me, not would there have been left behind to Nabal unto the light of the morning one urinating against the wall.
1SA 25:35 And David took from her hand all which she brought to him, and said to her, Ascend in peace to your house; see, I hearkened to your voice, and I took up your person!
1SA 25:36 And Abigail came to Nabal; and behold, there was to him a banquet in his house, as the banquet of a king; and the heart of Nabal was good with him, and he was being intoxicated exceedingly. And Abigal reported not to Nabal the thing, great or small, until the light of the morning.
1SA 25:37 And it came to pass in the morning as Nabal sobered up from the wine, his wife reported to him all these things. And his heart died in him, and he became as stone.
1SA 25:38 And it came to pass after about ten days, that the LORD struck Nabal, and he died.
1SA 25:39 And David heard that Nabal died, and said, Blessed be the LORD who judged the case of my being scorned by the hand of Nabal, and protected his bondman from out of the hand of evils. And the evil of Nabal the LORD returned against his own head. And David sent and spoke concerning Abigail, to take her to himself for a wife.
1SA 25:40 And the servants of David came to Abigail in Carmel. And they spoke to her, saying, David sends us to you, to take you to himself for a wife.
1SA 25:41 And rising, she did obeisance upon her face upon the ground, and said, Behold, your bondwoman is for a girl to wash the feet of the servants of my master.
1SA 25:42 And Abigail hastened and rose up, and mounted upon the donkey - and five of her young women followed her. And she went after the servants of David, and became to him for a wife.
1SA 25:43 And David took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and both were his wives.
1SA 25:44 And Saul gave Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Phalti son of Laish, the one of Gallim.
1SA 26:1 And the Ziphites come to the hill to Saul, saying, Behold, David is sheltered with us in the hill of Hachilah, against the face of Jeshimon.
1SA 26:2 And Saul rose up, and went down unto the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
1SA 26:3 And Saul camped in the hill of Hachilah, against the face of Jeshimon, upon the way. And David stayed in the wilderness. And David saw that Saul comes after him into the wilderness.
1SA 26:4 And David sent spies, and knew that Saul was come prepared from there.
1SA 26:5 And David rose up in private, and went into the place where Saul was sleeping there. And David saw the place where Saul went to bed there. And Abner son of Ner his commander-in-chief was there. And Saul was sleeping in the royal chariot, and the people were camping round about him.
1SA 26:6 And David responded, and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, saying, Who shall enter with me to Saul, into the camp? And Abishai said, I shall enter with you.
1SA 26:7 And they enter, David and Abishai, among the people at night. And behold, Saul was sleeping a deep sleep in the royal chariot, and his spear was sticking in the ground by his head; and Abner and the people slept round about him.
1SA 26:8 And Abishai said to David, The LORD locked up today your enemy into your hands. And now I shall indeed strike him with the spear into the earth once, and I shall not repeat it a second time against him.
1SA 26:9 And David said to Abishai, You should not utterly destroy him. For who shall bear his hand against the anointed one of the LORD, and be acquitted?
1SA 26:10 And David said, As the LORD lives, that if the LORD should not smite him, or his day should come and he should die, or by battle should go down and be added to his fathers;
1SA 26:11 then it is by no means to me from the LORD to bear my hand against the anointed one of the LORD. And now, take indeed the spear from before his head, and the flask of the water, and we shall go forth.
1SA 26:12 And David took the spear and the flask of the water from before his head; and they went forth, and there was not one seeing, and there was not one knowing, and there was not one awakening - all were sleeping; for a stupefaction from the LORD fell upon them.
1SA 26:13 And David passed over to the other side, and stood upon the top of the mountain far off; and there was a long way between them.
1SA 26:14 And David called the people, and spoke to Abner son of Ner, saying, Will you not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who are you, calling me?
1SA 26:15 And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? And who is as you in Israel? And why do you not guard your master the king? For one of the people entered to destroy your master the king.
1SA 26:16 This is not a good thing which you have done. As lives the LORD, for you are sons of death not guarding the king, your master, the anointed one of the LORD. And now see where the spear of the king is, and the flask of the water - the things by his head!
1SA 26:17 And Saul recognized the voice of David, and said, Is this your voice son David? And David said, It is my voice, my master; your bondman, O king.
1SA 26:18 And he said, Why is this my master pursues after his bondman? For in what have I sinned? And what offence was found in me?
1SA 26:19 And now let my master the king hear indeed the words of his bondman! If God stirs you against me, then may your sacrifice smell acceptable. And if the sons of men, then let these be accursed before the LORD; for they cast me out today to not be fixed firmly in the inheritance of the LORD, saying, Go serve other gods!
1SA 26:20 And now, may my blood not fall upon the ground right opposite the face of the LORD. For the king of Israel has come forth to seek one flea, as the long-eared owl pursues prey in the mountains.
1SA 26:21 And Saul said, I have sinned. Return, son David! For I shall not do evil against you any more, because my life was valued in your eyes; and today I have acted in folly, and I am ignorant very much.
1SA 26:22 And David responded and said, Behold, the spear of the king. Let indeed one of the servants come through and take it!
1SA 26:23 And the LORD will restore to each his righteousness and his trust; as the LORD delivered you today into my hands, and I wanted not to bear my hand against the anointed one of the LORD.
1SA 26:24 And behold, as your life was magnified today in this, in my eyes, so may my life be magnified before the LORD, and may he shelter me, and may he rescue me from out of all affliction.
1SA 26:25 And Saul said to David, Being blessed are you, son David. And by performing you shall perform, and in ability you shall be able. And David went forth on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
1SA 27:1 And David said in his heart, saying, Now I shall be added in one day into the hands of Saul. And there is not a good thing to me unless I should come through safe into the land of the Philistines; and Saul should spare of me, to seek me in every border of Israel; and thus I shall be delivered from out of his hand.
1SA 27:2 And David rose up, and passed over, he and the six hundred men with him, and went to Achish, son of Maoch, king of Gath.
1SA 27:3 And David sat with Achish in Gath, he and his men, each also with his house, and David and both of his wives - Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
1SA 27:4 And it was announced to Saul that David fled into Gath; and he proceeded not any longer to seek him.
1SA 27:5 And David said to Achish, If indeed your bondman has found favor in your eyes, give indeed to me a place in one of the cities of the ones in the country, and I shall settle there! For why does your bondman settle in a city reigning with you?
1SA 27:6 And Achish gave to him in that day Ziklag. Because of this Ziklag came to the king of Judea unto this day.
1SA 27:7 And came to pass the number of the days which David stayed in the country of the Philistines - four months.
1SA 27:8 And David ascended and his men, and they made an attack upon the Geshurites, and the Gezrites, and against the Amalekites. For the land was inhabited by the one from Shur, and unto the land of Egypt.
1SA 27:9 And he struck the land, and did not bring forth alive man or woman. And they took flocks, and herds, and donkeys, and camels, and clothes, and returned and came to Achish.
1SA 27:10 And Achish said to David, Upon whom did you attack today? And David said to Achish, To the south in Judea, and to the south of Jerahmeel, and to the south of the Kenite.
1SA 27:11 And David did not bring forth alive a man and woman to bring unto Gath, saying, Lest they announce against us, saying, Thus David does. And thus was his ordinance all the days which David settled in the country of the Philistines.
1SA 27:12 And David was trusted by Achish, saying, With shame he is being shamed by his people in Israel, and he will be my bondman into the eon.
1SA 28:1 And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines were gathered together in their camps to come forth for war against Israel. And Achish said to David, In knowing you shall know that with me you shall go forth unto the war, you and your men.
1SA 28:2 And David said to Achish, Thus now you shall know what your bondman will do. And Achish said to David, Thus as chief of the body-guard I shall appoint you for all the days.
1SA 28:3 And Samuel died, and all Israel lamented him, and entombed him in Ramah, in his city. And Saul removed the ones who deliver oracles, and the diviners from the land.
1SA 28:4 And the Philistines gather together, and come, and camp in Shunem. And Saul gathers together every man of Israel, and they camp in Gilboa.
1SA 28:5 And Saul beheld the camp of the Philistines, and he was fearful, and it startled his heart exceedingly.
1SA 28:6 And Saul asked through the LORD. And the LORD did not answer to him in dreams, nor in the manifestationsUrim \& Thummim., nor among the prophets.
1SA 28:7 And Saul said to his servants, Seek for me a woman who delivers oracles! and I will go to her, and will inquire by her. And his servants said to him, Behold, a woman who delivers oracles is in En-dor.
1SA 28:8 And Saul changed appearance, and put around other garments, and he himself goes, and two men with him; and they come to the woman by night. And he said to her, Use oracles indeed for me by the delivering an oracle, and lead up to me whom ever I should tell you!
1SA 28:9 And the woman said to him, Behold, you know as much as Saul did, as he utterly destroyed the ones delivering up oracles, and the diviners from the land. And why do you ensnare my life to put it to death?
1SA 28:10 And Saul swore by an oath to her according to God, saying, As lives the LORD, shall injustice meet up with you in this matter?
1SA 28:11 And the woman said to Saul, Whom should I lead up to you? And he said, Lead up Samuel to me!
1SA 28:12 And the woman beheld Samuel, and she yelled with a great voice. And the woman said to Saul, Why did you mislead me, even you are Saul?
1SA 28:13 And the king said to her, Do not fear! Whom do you see? And the woman said to Saul, I see magistrates ascending from out of the earth.
1SA 28:14 And he said to her, What did you perceive? And she said to him, An aged man ascending being cloaked in a double-garment. And Saul knew that this was Samuel. And he bowed upon the face upon the ground, and did obeisance to him.
1SA 28:15 And Samuel said, Why did you give trouble to me to cause me to ascend? And Saul said, I am afflicted very much, and the Philistines wage war with me, and God has left from me, and he does not heed me any longer, nor by the hand of the prophets, nor by dreams. And now I call you to make known to me what I should do.
1SA 28:16 And Samuel said, Why do you ask me, and the LORD has left from you, and has taken up with your neighbor?
1SA 28:17 And the LORD has done to you as he said by my hand. And the LORD will tear the kingdom from out of your hand, and will give it to your neighbor - to David.
1SA 28:18 For you hearkened not to the voice of the LORD, and you did not fill his rage of anger against Amalek. On account of this thing the LORD did to you thus in this day.
1SA 28:19 And the LORD will deliver up Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. And the LORD will put the camp of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
1SA 28:20 And Saul hastened, and fell full stop upon the ground, and feared very much from the words of Samuel. And there was not strength in him any longer; for he did not eat bread all that day, and all the night.
1SA 28:21 And the woman entered to Saul, and beheld that he hastened very much. And she said to him, Behold, your bondwoman hearkened to your voice, and I put my life in my hand, and I hearkened to your words which you spoke to me.
1SA 28:22 And now hear indeed the voice of your bondwoman, for I will place before you a morsel of bread; and you eat, and it will be for strength to you, that you should go in the way!
1SA 28:23 And he resisted persuasion, and wanted not to eat. And they pressed him - his servants and the woman. And he hearkened to their voice, and rose up from the ground, and sat upon the chair.
1SA 28:24 And to the woman was a suckling calf by the house. And she hastened and sacrificed it, and took flour and mixed it, and baked unleavened breads.
1SA 28:25 And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate. And rising up they went forth that night.
1SA 29:1 And the Philistines gathered all their camps unto Aphek. And Israel camped in En-dor in Jezreel.
1SA 29:2 And the satraps of the Philistines came by hundreds and thousands. And David and his men came near at the last with Achish.
1SA 29:3 And the satraps of the Philistines said, Who are these traveling? And Achish said to the satraps of the Philistines, Is not this David, the bondman of Saul king of Israel, who has been with me some days this second year, and I have not found in him any fault from which days he fell in with me until this day.
1SA 29:4 And the satraps of the Philistines were enraged over him; and they say to him, Return the man - and let him return unto his people of which you placed him there, and do not let him come with us to the battle, and let him not become a plotter in the camp! And how shall he be reconciled to his master? Will it not be with the heads of those our men?
1SA 29:5 Is this not David, whom they led in dances, saying, Saul struck his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
1SA 29:6 And Achish called David, and said to him, As the LORD lives, know that you are upright and good in my eyes, and so is your exiting and your entering with me in the camp. For I did not find against you an evil from which day you came to me until this day. But in the eyes of the satraps you are not good.
1SA 29:7 And now, return and go in peace, then in no way shall you do evil in the eyes of the satraps of the Philistines!
1SA 29:8 And David said to Achish, What have I done to you? And what did you find in your bondman from which day I was before you, and until this day, that in no way I should come to wage war against the enemies of my master the king?
1SA 29:9 And Achish answered, and said to David, I know that you are good in my eyes, as an angel of God, but the satraps of the Philistines say, He shall not come with us to war.
1SA 29:10 And now, rise early in the morning, you and the servants of your master having come with you, and go to the place where I placed you there! And you rise early in the journey, and when it gives light to you then go!
1SA 29:11 And David rose early, he and his men to go forth in the morning, and to guard the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines ascended to wage war against Israel.
1SA 30:1 And it came to pass, in the entering of David and of his men to Ziklag on the third day, that Amalek made an attack upon the south, and upon Ziklag, and struck Ziklag, and burnt it with fire.
1SA 30:2 And the women, and all the ones in it, from small unto great, they did not put to death, man nor woman, but they took them captive, and went forth in their way.
1SA 30:3 And David and his men came unto the city, and behold, it was burnt with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
1SA 30:4 And David and his men lifted their voice and wept until whenever there was not strength in them to weep any longer.
1SA 30:5 And both the wives of David were captured - Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
1SA 30:6 And David was afflicted very much, for the people said to stone him, for all the people were in severe pain of soul, each over his sons, and over his daughters. And David was fortified by the LORD his God.
1SA 30:7 And David said to Abiathar the priest, son of Ahimelech, Lead forward the ephod. And Abiathar led forward the ephod to David.
1SA 30:8 And David asked through the LORD, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And the LORD said to him, Pursue! for in overtaking you shall overtake them, and in rescuing you shall rescue.
1SA 30:9 And David went, he and the six hundred men with him. And they come unto the rushing stream of Besor, and the extra ones stopped.
1SA 30:10 And about four hundred men pursued, and two hundred men stood, who stayed on the other side of the rushing stream of Besor.
1SA 30:11 And they find an Egyptian man in the field. And they take him, and bring him to David, and give to him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
1SA 30:12 And they give to him a piece of dried cluster of figs, and two dried grape clusters. And he ate, and his spirit stood up in him, for he had not eaten bread, and had not drank water three days and three nights.
1SA 30:13 And David said to him, Who are you, and from what place are you? And the Egyptian servant-lad said, I am a bondman of a man, an Amalekite; and my master left me for I was unwell, today being three days.
1SA 30:14 And we made an attack upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the ones of the part of Judea, and to the south of Caleb; and Ziklag we burnt in fire.
1SA 30:15 And David said to him, Will you lead me to this troop? And he said, If you swear by an oath indeed to me according to God, to not put me to death, and to not deliver me into the hands of my master, then I will lead you to this troop.
1SA 30:16 And he led him. And behold, these were dispersed upon the face of all the land, eating and drinking, and celebrating over all the great spoils which they took from out of the land of the Philistines, and from out of the land of Judah.
1SA 30:17 And David came upon them, and struck them from the morning star and until evening, and of the next day. And not a man was preserved from out of them, but only four hundred boys who mounted upon camels and fled.
1SA 30:18 And David removed all which the Amalekites took; and both his wives he rescued.
1SA 30:19 And not one thing perished to them from small and unto great, and unto sons and daughters, from the spoils and unto all what they took of theirs - all the things David returned.
1SA 30:20 And David took all the flocks and the herds, and led them away before the spoils. And concerning those spoils it was said, These are the spoils of David.
1SA 30:21 And David came to the two hundred men being left behind of the troop going after David that stayed at the rushing stream of Besor. And they came forth to meet David, and to meet the people with him. And David came forward unto of the people, and asked them the greetings for peace.
1SA 30:22 And every pestilent and wicked man responded of the men warriors going with David, and said, For they did not pursue with us, we shall not give to them from out of the spoils which we rescued, but let each take away his wife and his children, and let them return!
1SA 30:23 And David said, You shall not do thus my brothers after the delivering up of the enemy by the LORD to us, and guarded us, and the LORD delivered up the troop coming upon us into our hands.
1SA 30:24 And who will heed these your words, for they are not inferior to us? For according to the portion of the one going down to war, so shall be the portion of the one staying by the equipment - according to the same they shall be portioned.
1SA 30:25 And it came to pass from that day and forward, that it became for an order and for an ordinance in Israel until this day.
1SA 30:26 And David came to Ziklag, and sent to the elders of Judah, and to his neighbors of the spoils, saying, Behold, a blessing to you from the spoils of the enemies of the LORD;
1SA 30:27 to the ones in Beth-el, and to the ones in Ramoth of the south, and to the ones in Jattir,
1SA 30:28 and to the ones in Aroer, and to the ones in Siphmoth, and to the ones in Eshtemoa,
1SA 30:29 and to the ones in Rachal, and to the ones in the cities of the Jerahmeelite, and to the ones in the cities of the Kenite;
1SA 30:30 and to the ones in Hormah, and to the ones in Beer-ashan, and to the ones in Athach;
1SA 30:31 and to the ones in Hebron, and into all the places which David went there, he and his men.
1SA 31:1 And the Philistines waged war against Israel. And the men of Israel fled from the face of the Philistines, and they fell slain in mount Gilboa.
1SA 31:2 And the Philistines joined up against Saul and his sons. And the the Philistines struck down Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melchishua, sons of Saul.
1SA 31:3 And the battle weighs down against Saul; and the shooters find him - men bowmen; and he was wounded in the spleen.
1SA 31:4 And Saul said to the one carrying his weapons, Unsheathe your broadsword, and pierce me with it; lest these uncircumcised should come and should pierce me, and should mock against me! But the one carrying his weapons did not want to, for he feared exceedingly. And Saul took his broadsword, and fell upon it.
1SA 31:5 And the one carrying his weapons beheld that Saul died, and fell also himself upon his broadsword, and died with him.
1SA 31:6 And Saul died, and his three sons, and the one carrying his weapons, and all his men, in that day at the same time.
1SA 31:7 And the men of Israel beheld, the ones on the other side of the valley, and the ones on the other side of the Jordan, that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul died, and his sons. And they leave their cities, and flee. And the Philistines come and dwell in them.
1SA 31:8 And it came to pass on the next day, and the Philistines come to strip the slain, and they find Saul and his three sons fallen upon the mountains of Gilboa.
1SA 31:9 And they behead him, and strip him of his weapons, and send into the land of the Philistines round about, announcing good news to their idols, and to their people.
1SA 31:10 And they presented his weapons in the Astartion. And his body they fastened down on the wall in Beth-shan.
1SA 31:11 And the ones dwelling in Jabesh Gilead hear concerning as much as the Philistines did to Saul.
1SA 31:12 And all the men of power rose up, and went the entire night, and took the body of Saul and the body of Jonathan his son from the wall in Beth-sham; and brought them into Jabesh, and incinerated them there.
1SA 31:13 And they took their bones, and entombed them by the plowed field in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
2SA 1:1 And it came to pass after the dying of Saul, and David returned from striking Amalek, and David stayed in Ziklag two days,
2SA 1:2 that it came to pass in the third day, and behold, a man came from out of the camp of the people of Saul, and his clothes were torn up, and earth was upon his head. And it happened in his entering to David, that he fell upon the ground, and did obeisance to him.
2SA 1:3 And David said to him, From what place do you come? And he said to him, From out of the camp of Israel I have come through safe.
2SA 1:4 And David said to him, What word is this? Report to me! And he said, The people have fled from the battle, and many have fallen of the people, and died; and Saul and Jonathan his son died.
2SA 1:5 And David said to the servant-lad, In the reporting it, how do you know that Saul and Jonathan his son have died?
2SA 1:6 And the servant-lad said reporting to him, By chance I fell among the mountain of Giboa. And behold, Saul was stayed upon his spear; and behold, the chariots and the commanders of the cavalry joined together against him.
2SA 1:7 And he looked behind him, and he beheld me, and he called me. And I said, Behold, it is I.
2SA 1:8 And he said to me, Who are you? And I said, I am an Amalekite.
2SA 1:9 And he said to me, Stand indeed above me, and put me to death! for an awful darkness constrained me, for my life is yet in me.
2SA 1:10 And I stood over him, and put him to death, for I knew that he would not live after he fell. And I took the crown that was upon his head, and the armlet upon his arm, and I brought them to my master here.
2SA 1:11 And David took hold of his clothes, and tore them; and all the men with him.
2SA 1:12 And they beat their chests, and wept, and fasted until evening, over Saul, and over Jonathan his son, and over the people of Judah, and over the house of Israel; because they were struck by the broadsword.
2SA 1:13 And David said to the servant-lad reporting to him, From what place are you? And he said, I am the son of an Amalekite sojourner man.
2SA 1:14 And David said to him, How is it you fear not to bear your hand to utterly destroy the anointed one of the LORD?
2SA 1:15 And David called one of his servant-lads, and said, Coming forward, you meet him! And he struck him, and he died.
2SA 1:16 And David said to him, Your blood be upon your head, for your mouth answered against you, saying, I put to death the anointed one of the LORD.
2SA 1:17 And David lamented this lamentation over Saul, and over Jonathan his son.
2SA 1:18 And he spoke to teach the sons of Judah. Behold, it is written upon the scroll of the upright.
2SA 1:19 And he said, Set up a stone monument, O Israel, for the ones having died upon your heights being slain! How the mighty ones are fallen.
2SA 1:20 You should not announce it in Gath, and you should not announce it as good news in the streets of Ashkelon - lest at any time the daughters of the Philistines should be glad, lest at any time the daughters of the uncircumcised should exult.
2SA 1:21 O mountains in Gilboa, may there not fall upon you neither dew nor rain, and O fields of first-fruits. For there the shield of the mighty ones was loathed - the shield of Saul was not anointed with oil.
2SA 1:22 From the blood of the slain, and from the fat of the mighty ones, the bow of Jonathan did not return empty to the rear; and the broadsword of Saul did not return empty.
2SA 1:23 Saul and Jonathan, the ones being loved, and beautiful ones; not parted in their life, and in their death they were not parted. Nimble above eagles, and strong above lions.
2SA 1:24 Daughters of Israel, weep over Saul! the one dressing you with scarlet apparel, with your ornament; the one bearing a golden ornament for your clothes.
2SA 1:25 O how the mighty ones fell in the midst of battle. O Jonathan, upon your heights you were slain.
2SA 1:26 I ache over you, Jonathan, O my brother. You were beautiful to me, exceedingly; your affection to me caused wonder - above the affection of women.
2SA 1:27 O how the mighty ones fell, and the weapons of warfare perished.
2SA 2:1 And it came to pass after these things, and David asked by the LORD, saying, Shall I ascend unto one of the cities of Judah? And the LORD said to him, Ascend! And David said, Where should I ascend? And he said, Unto Hebron.
2SA 2:2 And David ascended there, and both of his wives - Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
2SA 2:3 And the men were with him, each one and his house. And they dwelt among the cities of Hebron.
2SA 2:4 And the men of Judea come and anoint David there to reign over the house of Judah. And they reported to David, saying, The men of Jabesh of the Gileadites entombed Saul.
2SA 2:5 And David sent messengers to the leaders of Jabesh of the Gileadites, and said to them, Being blessed are you to the LORD, that you performed this mercy for your master - for Saul; and you entombed him.
2SA 2:6 And now, may the LORD perform mercy and truth with you. And indeed I will do with you this good that you did in this matter.
2SA 2:7 And now strengthen your hands, and become as mighty sons! For Saul your master has died, and indeed the house of Judah has anointed me over them for king.
2SA 2:8 And Abner son of Ner, commander-in-chief of Saul, took Ishbosheth son of Saul, and brought him from out of the camp into Mahanaim.
2SA 2:9 And he gave him to reign over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel.
2SA 2:10 Ishbosheth son of Saul was forty years old when he reigned over Israel; and he reigned two years; except for the house of Judah, which were following after David.
2SA 2:11 And became the number of the days of which David reigned in Hebron over the house of Judah - seven years and six months.
2SA 2:12 And Abner son of Ner came forth, and the servants of Ishbosheth son of Saul, out of Mahanaim unto Gibeon.
2SA 2:13 And Joab son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, came forth out of Hebron, and met them at the fountain of Gibeon. And these sat here on this side, and these others at the fountain here on that side.
2SA 2:14 And Abner said to Joab, Raise up indeed the servant-lads and let them play before us! And Joab said, Let them arise!
2SA 2:15 And they rose up and went by in number - twelve of the servants of Benjamin of Ishbosheth son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David.
2SA 2:16 And they each held by their hand the head of his neighbor; and his knife was thrust into the side of his neighbor; and they fell down together. And they called that place, Portion of the Plotters, which is in Gibeon.
2SA 2:17 And the battle was hard so as to an exceeding degree in that day. And Abner and the men of Israel failed before the servants of David.
2SA 2:18 And there were there three sons of Zeruiah - Joab and Abishai and Asahel. And Asahel was light of his feet, as one doe of the ones in the field.
2SA 2:19 And Asahel pursued after Abner, and did not turn aside to go to the right nor to the left after Abner.
2SA 2:20 And Abner looked to his rear, and said, Are you Asahel himself? And he said, I am.
2SA 2:21 And Abner said to him, Turn aside to the right or to the left, and constrain to yourself one of the servant-lads, and take to yourself his full armor! And Asahel did not want to turn aside from being behind him.
2SA 2:22 And Abner added yet, saying to Asahel, Leave from me, that I should not strike you unto the ground! For how shall I lift my face to Joab your brother?
2SA 2:23 And he was not willing to leave. And Abner struck him with the rear of the spear upon his flank. And the spear went completely through out behind him; and he falls there and dies underneath him. And it came to pass every one coming unto the place where Asahel fell there and died, even stood still.
2SA 2:24 And Joab and Abishai pursued after Abner, and the sun went down. And they entered unto the hill of Ammah, according to the face of Giah, the wilderness way of Gibeon.
2SA 2:25 And the sons of Benjamin gathered together following after Abner, and came to meet as one, and stood upon the head of one hill.
2SA 2:26 And Abner called Joab, and said, Shall the broadsword devour in victory, or do you not know that it will be bitter at the last? And for how long shall you in no way speak to the people to return from following after their brothers?
2SA 2:27 And Joab said, As the LORD lives, that if you had not spoken, that then from the morning the people ascended even each after his brother.
2SA 2:28 And Joab trumped the trumpet, and all the people left, and did not pursue any longer after Israel, and proceeded not any longer to wage war.
2SA 2:29 And Abner and his men went forth at the descent of the sun, and went all that night, and passed over the Jordan, and went the entire extent, and came unto Camp.
2SA 2:30 And Joab returned from following behind Abner. And he gathered together all the people, and they numbered the servants of David having fallen - nineteen men and Asahel.
2SA 2:31 And the servants of David struck of the sons of Benjamin, of the men of Abner - three hundred and sixty men.
2SA 2:32 And they lifted up Asahel, and entombed him in the burying-place of his father in Beth-lehem. And Joab and his men went the entire night, and light shined through to them in Hebron.
2SA 3:1 And there was war for a long time between the house of Saul, and between the house of David. And the house of David went and strengthened, and the house of Saul went and weakened.
2SA 3:2 And were born to David in Hebron six sons, and his first-born was was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;
2SA 3:3 and his second was Chileab of Abigail the Carmelitess; and the third was Absalom son of Maacah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;
2SA 3:4 and the fourth was Adonijah son of Haggith; and the fifth was Shephatiah by Abital;
2SA 3:5 and the sixth was Ithream of Eglah wife of David. These were born to David in Hebron.
2SA 3:6 And it came to pass in the war being between the house of Saul, and between the house of David, that Abner was holding rule over the house of Saul.
2SA 3:7 And to Saul was a concubine, and the name to her was Rizpah, daughter of Aiah. And Ishbosheth son of Saul said to Abner, Why is it that you enter to the concubine of my father?
2SA 3:8 And Abner was enraged exceedingly on account of this word by Ishbosheth. And Abner said to him, Am I a dog's head that I executed today mercy with the house of Saul your father, and with his brothers, and with his acquaintances, and did not desert to the house of David, that you seek anxiously about me concerning injustice to a woman today?
2SA 3:9 Thus may God do to Abner, and thus may he add to him, that as the LORD swore by an oath to David, that so I should do the same to him in this day,
2SA 3:10 to remove the kingdom from the house of Saul, and to raise up the throne of David over Israel, and over Judah, from Dan until Beer-sheba.
2SA 3:11 And Ishbosheth was not able still to answer Abner's utterance, because of fearing him.
2SA 3:12 And Abner sent messengers to David in Hebron, saying, You ordain a covenant with me! And behold, My hand is with you to return to you all Israel.
2SA 3:13 And David said, Well, I shall ordain with you a covenant, except one word I ask from you, saying, You shall not see my face if you do not lead Michal daughter of Saul, in your coming to behold my face.
2SA 3:14 And David sent messengers to Ishbosheth son of Saul, saying, Give back to me my wife Michal, which I took for a hundred foreskins of Philistines.
2SA 3:15 And Ishbosheth sent, and took her from her husband, from Phaltiel son of Laish.
2SA 3:16 And her husband went with her, going and weeping after her unto Behurim. And Abner said to him, Go return! And he returned.
2SA 3:17 And the word of Abner came to the elders of Israel, saying, Yesterday and the third day before you sought David to reign over you.
2SA 3:18 And now act! For the LORD spoke concerning David, saying, By the hand of my servant David I will deliver my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and from the hand of all his enemies.
2SA 3:19 And Abner spoke in the ears of Benjamin. And Abner went to speak into the ears of David in Hebron, all as much as it pleased in the eyes of Israel, and in the eyes of all the house of Benjamin.
2SA 3:20 And Abner came to David in Hebron, and with him twenty men. And David made a banquet to Abner and the men with him.
2SA 3:21 And Abner said to David, I will arise indeed and shall go, and shall gather together all Israel to my master the king. And I will ordain with you a covenant, and you shall reign over all whom your soul desires. And David sent away Abner, and he went in peace.
2SA 3:22 And behold, the servants of David and Joab came from the expedition, and they brought many spoils with themselves. And Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he went in peace.
2SA 3:23 And Joab and all the military with him came. And they reported to Joab, saying, Abner son of Ner comes to David, and he has sent him, and he went forth in peace.
2SA 3:24 And Joab entered to the king, and said to him, What is this you did? Behold, Abner came to you, and why have you sent him away, and he has gone forth in peace?
2SA 3:25 Or do you not know the evil of Abner son of Ner, that he came to deceive you, and to know your entering and your exiting, and to know all together as much as you do?
2SA 3:26 And Joab went from David, and sent messengers after Abner, and they returned him from the well of Sirah - and David knew not.
2SA 3:27 And Abner returned to Hebron, and Joab turned him from the side of the gate to speak to him laying in wait. And he struck him there in the flank, and he died for the blood of Asahel his brother.
2SA 3:28 And David heard about these things, and said, I am innocent, and my kingdom, before the LORD, and unto the eon of the blood of Abner son of Ner.
2SA 3:29 Let it arrive upon the head of Joab, and upon all the house of his father! And may there not cease to be from out of the house of Joab one having gonorrhea, and leprous, and holding a stave, and falling by the broadsword, and lacking breads.
2SA 3:30 For Joab and Abishai his brother observed Abner, because he killed Asahel their brother in Gibeon in the battle.
2SA 3:31 And David said to Joab, and to all the people with him, Tear your clothes, and gird on sackcloths, and lament before Abner! And king David went behind the bier.
2SA 3:32 And they entombed Abner in Hebron. And the king lifted his voice, and wept over the tomb of Abner; and all the people wept.
2SA 3:33 And the king lamented over Abner, and said, Shall Abner die according to the death of Nabal?
2SA 3:34 Your hands were not tied, nor your feet in shackles; you did not lead as Nabal - you fell in the presence of a son of injustice. And all the people were brought together to weep for him.
2SA 3:35 And all the people came to cause David to eat breads at the wake still being day. And David swore by an oath, saying, Thus may God do to me, and thus may he add yet more, that until the sun should go down, in no way shall I taste bread nor any thing.
2SA 3:36 And all the people knew. And it was pleasing before them - all as much as the king did in the presence of all the people.
2SA 3:37 And all the people and all Israel knew in that day, that the putting to death of Abner son of Ner happened not by the king.
2SA 3:38 And the king said to his servants, Do you not know that a leader and a great one has fallen in this day in Israel?
2SA 3:39 And that I am as a relative today, and one being placed for king. But these men, the sons of Zeruiah are hard for me. The LORD should recompense to the one doing the wicked things according to his evil.
2SA 4:1 And Ishbosheth son of Saul heard that Abner has died in Hebron. And his hands were faint, and all the men of Israel were disturbed.
2SA 4:2 And there were two men being leaders of the confederation to Ishbosheth son of Saul - the name to the one was Baanah, and the name of the second, Rechab, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, from out of the sons of Benjamin. (For also Beeroth was considered among the sons of Benjamin.
2SA 4:3 And the Beerothites ran away unto Gittaim, and were there sojourning until this day.)
2SA 4:4 And to Jonathan, son of Saul, there was a son stricken in the feet - a son five years old. And this one was in the way in the coming of the message of Saul and Jonathan his son from out of Jezreel. And hearing, his wet-nurse lifted him, and fled. And it happened in her hastening and withdrawing, he fell and became lame. And the name to him was Mephibosheth.
2SA 4:5 And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite went out - Rechab and Baana, and entered in the sweltering heat of the day into the house of Ishbosheth - and he was asleep in the bed in the midday.
2SA 4:6 And behold, the doorkeeper of the house was cleansing wheat, and he slumbered and slept. And Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped notice.
2SA 4:7 And they entered into the house, and Ishbosheth was sleeping upon his bed in his bedroom. And they struck him, and put him to death, and removed his head, and took his head, and went forth in the way according to the west the entire night.
2SA 4:8 And they brought the head of Ishbosheth to David in Hebron. And they said to the king, Behold, the head of Ishbosheth son of Saul your enemy, who sought your life; and the LORD gave to our master the king punishment of his enemies, as this day, of Saul your enemy, and of his seed.
2SA 4:9 And David responded to Rechab and to Baanah his brother, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, As the LORD lives, who ransomed my soul from all affliction;
2SA 4:10 that the one reporting to me that Saul has died, and he was as one announcing good news before me, but I constrained him, and killed him in Ziklag, in which he must have thought to be giving me good news;
2SA 4:11 and now, wicked men killed a just man in his house upon his bed; and now, I will require for his blood from out of your hand, and I will utterly destroy you from the earth.
2SA 4:12 And David gave charge to his servants, and they killed them, and lopped off their hands and their feet, and hung them upon the fountain in Hebron. And the head of Ishbosheth they entombed in the tomb of Abner son of Ner in Hebron.
2SA 5:1 And all the tribes of Israel came to David in Hebron. And they say to him, Behold, we are of your bones and of your flesh.
2SA 5:2 And before yesterday and the third day before, when Saul was king over us, you were the one leading out and bringing in Israel. And the LORD said to you, You tend my people Israel, and you will be for leader over my people Israel.
2SA 5:3 And all the elders of Israel come to the king in Hebron. And king David ordained with them a covenant in Hebron, in the presence of the LORD. And they anoint David for king over all Israel.
2SA 5:4 David was a son thirty years in his reigning, and forty years he reigned.
2SA 5:5 Seven years and six months he reigned in Hebron over Judah. And thirty three years he reigned over all Israel and Judah in Jerusalem.
2SA 5:6 And the king went forth, and all his men unto Jerusalem, to the Jebusite dwelling the land. And it was said to David, You shall not enter here. For the blind and the lame opposed, saying, David shall not enter here.
2SA 5:7 And David overtook the citadel of Zion, this is the city of David.
2SA 5:8 And David said in that day, Every one striking a Jebusite, let him touch by the dagger both the lame and the blind, and the ones detesting the soul of David! On account of this they shall say, Blind and lame shall not enter into the house of the LORD.
2SA 5:9 And David stayed in the citadel, and this was called the city of David. And David built the city round about from the Akra, and his house.
2SA 5:10 And David went going, and being magnified, and the LORD almighty was with him.
2SA 5:11 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and wood of cedars, and fabricators of woods, and fabricators of stones - and they built a house for David.
2SA 5:12 And David knew that the LORD prepared him for king over Israel, and that his kingdom was lifted up on account of his people Israel.
2SA 5:13 And David took again wives and concubines from Jerusalem, after his coming from Hebron. And still more sons and daughters were born to David.
2SA 5:14 And these are the names of the ones being born of them in Jerusalem - Shammuah, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,
2SA 5:15 and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
2SA 5:16 and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphalet, and Elishua.
2SA 5:17 And the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over Israel. And all the Philistines ascended to seek David. And David heard, and went down unto the citadel.
2SA 5:18 And the Philistines came and met in battle in the Valley of the Titans.
2SA 5:19 And David asked of the LORD, saying, Shall I ascend against the Philistines? and, Will you deliver them into my hands? And the LORD said to David, Ascend! for in delivering I will deliver the Philistines into your hands.
2SA 5:20 And David came from the upper breaches, and smote them there. And David said, The LORD cut through my enemies before me, as he cuts through waters. On account of this the name of that place is called Upper Breaches.
2SA 5:21 And they left behind there their gods, and David took them and the men with him.
2SA 5:22 And the Philistines proceeded yet again to ascend, and met in battle in the valley of the Titans.
2SA 5:23 And David asked through the LORD. And the LORD said, Do not ascend to meet them! Turn from them, and you shall be at hand for them neighboring the Place of Weeping!
2SA 5:24 And it will be, in your hearing the sound of the rumbling from out of the Grove of the Weeping, then you shall go down to them; for then the LORD shall go forth in front of you, to strike in the battle of the Philistines.
2SA 5:25 And David did thus as the LORD gave charge to him; and struck the Philistines from Gibeon unto Gezer.
2SA 6:1 And David gathered again every young man of Israel - thirty thousand.
2SA 6:2 And David rose up and went, and all the people with him, and some of the rulers of Judah, to lead from there the ark of God, upon which the name of the LORD of the forces is called upon - the one sitting upon the cherubim upon it.
2SA 6:3 And they set the ark of God upon a new wagon, and lifted it from out of the house of Abinadab on the hill. And Uzzah and his brothers, the sons of Abinadab, led the wagon with the ark.
2SA 6:4 And his brothers went in front of the ark.
2SA 6:5 And David and all the sons of Israel played before the LORD with instruments in accord, and with odes, and with lutes, and with stringed instruments, and with tambourines, and with cymbals, and with pipes.
2SA 6:6 And they come unto the threshing-floor of Nachon. And Uzzah stretched out his hand to the ark of God to hold it. And he held it, for the calf distracted it.
2SA 6:7 And the LORD was enraged in anger with Uzzah; and God struck him there for the rashness; and he died there by the ark of the LORD before God.
2SA 6:8 And David was depressed because of which the LORD cut severance with Uzzah. And he called that place, Severance of Uzzah until this day.
2SA 6:9 And David feared the LORD in that day, saying, How shall the ark of God enter to me?
2SA 6:10 And David did not want to turn aside to himself the ark of the covenant of the LORD into the city of David. And David turned off with it into the house of Obed Edom the Gittite.
2SA 6:11 And the ark of the LORD stayed in the house of Obed Edom the Gittite three months. And the LORD blessed the entire house of Obed Edom and all the things of his.
2SA 6:12 And it was reported to king David, saying, The LORD blessed the house of Obed Edom, and all of his, because of the ark of God. And David went and led the ark of the LORD from out of the house of Obed Edom into the city of David with gladness.
2SA 6:13 And there were with him the ones lifting the ark of the LORD - seven companies of dancers, and a calf and lambs for sacrifice.
2SA 6:14 And David played music with instruments in accord in the presence of the LORD. And David was clothed in a special robe.
2SA 6:15 And David and all the house of Israel led the ark of the LORD with a cry, and with the sound of a trumpet.
2SA 6:16 And it happened of the ark coming unto the city of David, that Michal daughter of Saul looked through the window, and saw king David dancing and playing music before the LORD. And she treated him with contempt in her heart.
2SA 6:17 And they carried in the ark of the LORD, and put it aside in its place, in the middle of the tent which David pitched for it. And David offered whole burnt offerings before the LORD, and peace offerings.
2SA 6:18 And David completed offering the whole burnt offerings, and the peace offerings. And he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of the forces.
2SA 6:19 And he portioned to all the people among all the force of Israel, from man unto woman, to each a biscuit of bread, and broiled meat, and a pancake from the frying pan. And all the people went forth each to his house.
2SA 6:20 And David returned to bless his house. And Michal the daughter of Saul came forth to meet David, and said, How was the king of Israel glorified today, who was uncovered today in the eyes of the girls of his servants, as one uncovers by uncovering of the ones dancing.
2SA 6:21 And David said to Michal, In the presence of the LORD I will dance, who chose me over your father, and over all his house, to place me in the lead over his people Israel - and I shall play and dance in the presence of the LORD.
2SA 6:22 And I will be uncovered again thus, and I will be useless in your eyes, and with the girls of whom you said of me not being extolled.
2SA 6:23 And Michal daughter of Saul did not have a child unto the day of her dying.
2SA 7:1 And it came to pass when the king sat in his house, and the LORD rested him round about from all of his enemies;
2SA 7:2 that the king said to Nathan the prophet, Behold indeed, I dwell in a house of cedar, and the ark of God sits in the midst of the tent.
2SA 7:3 And Nathan said to the king, All as much as should be in your heart, proceed and do! For the LORD is with you.
2SA 7:4 And it came to pass in that night, and the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying,
2SA 7:5 Go and speak to my servant David! Thus says the LORD, You shall not build for me a house for me to dwell in.
2SA 7:6 For I have not dwelt in a house from which day I led the sons of Israel out of Egypt, until this day, for I was walking about in a lodging, in a tent.
2SA 7:7 In all the places which all Israel went by, have I in speaking spoke to one tribe of Israel, in which I gave charge to tend my people Israel, saying, Why do you not build for me a house of cedar?
2SA 7:8 And now thus you shall say to my servant David, Thus says the LORD almighty, I took you from out of the haven of the sheep, for you to be for leader over my people Israel.
2SA 7:9 And I was with you in all wheresoever you went, and I utterly destroyed all your enemies from your face, and I made to you a great name, according to the name of the great ones upon the earth.
2SA 7:10 And I will establish a place to my people Israel, and I will plant it, and they shall encamp by themselves, and shall not be anxious any longer. And the son of iniquity shall not proceed to humble them as from the beginning,
2SA 7:11 even from the days which I ordered judges over my people Israel, and will rest you from all your enemies. And the LORD will report to you that he shall build a house to you.
2SA 7:12 And it will be whenever your days should have been fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, that I shall raise up your seed after you, who will be from out of your belly, and I shall prepare his kingdom.
2SA 7:13 He shall build to me a house to my name, and I will erect his throne unto into the eon.
2SA 7:14 I will be to him for father, and he will be to me for son. And if his injustice should come, then I shall reprove him by a rod of men, and by blows of the sons of men.
2SA 7:15 But my mercy I will not remove from him, as I removed it from Saul, whom I removed from your face.
2SA 7:16 And your house shall be trustworthy, and your kingdom unto the eon before me. And your throne will be erected into the eon.
2SA 7:17 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so spoke Nathan to David.
2SA 7:18 And king David entered, and sat before the LORD, and said, Who am I, O my Lord, O LORD? And what is my house, that you love me for these things?
2SA 7:19 And it was reduced small before you, O my Lord, O LORD; and you spoke about the house of your servant for a far time. And is this the law of man, O my Lord, O LORD?
2SA 7:20 And what shall David add yet to speak to you? And now, you know your servant, O my Lord, O LORD.
2SA 7:21 Because of your word, and because of your servant, you have acted, and according to your heart, you have done all this greatness, to make known to your servant;
2SA 7:22 so as to magnify you, O my Lord, O LORD. For there is not one as you, and there is not a God besides you, among all in whom we heard with our ears.
2SA 7:23 And what other nation is as your people Israel in the earth, s God guided it to ransom to himself a people, to establish your name for the executing greatness and grandeur, for you to cast out from in front of your people, whom you ransomed to yourself from out of Egypt, even nations and tents?
2SA 7:24 And you prepared to yourself your people Israel to be for a people unto the eon. And you, O LORD, became to them for God.
2SA 7:25 And now, O my Lord, O LORD, the word which you spoke for your servant, and for his house, confirm it as trustworthy unto the eon, and as you spoke, do!
2SA 7:26 And now may your name be magnified until the eon, saying,
2SA 7:27 The LORD almighty - God over Israel. You uncovered the ear of your servant, saying, I will build to you a house. On account of this your servant found his own heart to pray to you this prayer.
2SA 7:28 And now, O my Lord, O LORD, you are God, and your words will be true, and you spoke these good things concerning your servant.
2SA 7:29 And now begin and bless the house of your servant, to be into the eon before you! For you, O my Lord, O LORD, spoke. And from your blessing the house of your servant shall be blessed into the eon.
2SA 8:1 And it came to pass after these things, David struck the Philistines, and put them to flight. And David took the things being separated tribute. from out of the hand of the Philistines.
2SA 8:2 And David struck Moab, and measured them in measuring lines, resting them upon the ground. And there were the two measured out lines to kill, and the fullness of the third measured out line he took alive. And Moab became to David for servants bearing tribute.
2SA 8:3 And David struck Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah, in his going to set his hand against the Euphrates river.
2SA 8:4 And David first took a thousand chariots of his, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand men - footmen. And David disabled all the chariots, and left behind for himself of them a hundred chariots.
2SA 8:5 And Syria of Damascus comes to help Hadadezer king of Zobah. And David struck among the Syrians twenty and two thousand men.
2SA 8:6 And David put a detachment in Syria near Damascus. And the Syrians became to David for servants bearing tribute. And the LORD delivered David wheresoever he went.
2SA 8:7 And David took the armlets of gold that were upon the children of Hadadezer king of Zobah, and brought them into Jerusalem.
2SA 8:8 And from Betah, and from the chosen cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceedingly much brass.
2SA 8:9 And Toi the king of Hamath heard that David struck all the force of Hadadezer.
2SA 8:10 And Toi sent Joram his son to king David to ask him the things for peace, and congratulated him over which he waged war with Hadadezer, and struck him - for he was an adversary to Hadadezer. And in his hands were items of silver, and items of gold, and items of brass.
2SA 8:11 And these things king David sanctified to the LORD, with the silver, and the gold of which he sanctified from all of the cities which he overpowered -
2SA 8:12 even from Edom, and from Moab, and from the sons of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek, and from the spoils of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
2SA 8:13 And David made a name for himself. And in his returning he struck Idumea in Gebelem to eighteen thousand.
2SA 8:14 And he put in Edom detachments. In all Edom he stationed ones setting up monuments. And all the ones in Edom became servants to David. And the LORD preserved David wheresoever he went.
2SA 8:15 And David reigned over all Israel; and David was executing equity and righteousness over all his people.
2SA 8:16 And Joab son of Zeruiah was over the military; and Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was over the ones recording;
2SA 8:17 and Zadok son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seriah was the scribe;
2SA 8:18 and Benaiah son of Jehoiada was counselor; and the Cherethite and the Pelethite, and the sons of David were chiefs of the palace.
2SA 9:1 And David said, Is there anyone still left from the house of Saul, that I should perform with him an act of mercy because of Jonathan?
2SA 9:2 And from the house of Saul was a servant, and the name to him was Ziba. And they called him to David. And the king said to him, You are Ziba? And he said, Your servant.
2SA 9:3 And the king said, Is there left any man from out of the house of Saul, that I should perform with him an act of mercy of God? And Ziba said to the king, There still is a son to Jonathan being stricken of the feet.
2SA 9:4 And the king said to him, Where is this one? And Ziba said to the king, Behold, in the house of Machir, son of Ammiel, of Lo-debar.
2SA 9:5 And king David sent, and took him from out of the house of Machir, son of Ammiel, of Lo-debar.
2SA 9:6 And Mephibosheth son of Jonathan son of Saul comes to king David, and fell upon his face, and did obeisance to him. And David said to him, Mephibosheth! And he said, Behold, your servant.
2SA 9:7 And David said to him, Do not fear, for by dealing with you I shall execute with you an act of mercy because of Jonathan your father, and I will restore to you all the fields of Saul, the father of your father; and you shall eat bread at my table always.
2SA 9:8 And he did obeisance to him, and said, Who am I your servant, that you looked upon the dying dog likened to me?
2SA 9:9 And the king called Ziba, the servant of Saul, and said to him, All as much as is to Saul, and his entire house, I have given to the son of your master.
2SA 9:10 And you shall work the land for him, and your sons, and your servants. And you shall carry in breads to the son of your master, and he shall eat. And Mephibosheth son of your master shall eat bread always at my table. And to Ziba were fifteen sons and twenty servants.
2SA 9:11 And Ziba said to the king, According to all as much as my master the king gives charge to his servant, so shall your servant do. And Mephibosheth ate at the table of David as one of the sons of the king.
2SA 9:12 And to Mephibosheth there was a small son, and the name to him was Micha. And all the household of the house of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth.
2SA 9:13 And Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem - for at the table of the king he ate always. And he was lame of both of his feet.
2SA 10:1 And it came to pass after these things, that the king of the sons of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned instead of him.
2SA 10:2 And David said, I will perform an act of kindness with Hanun son of Nahash, in which manner his father performed an act of kindness with me. And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants concerning his father. And the servants of David came into the land of the sons of Ammon.
2SA 10:3 And the rulers of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun their master, Is it for David to glorify your father before you that he sent to you comforters? But is it not however that they should search the city, and spy it - for to survey it David sent his servants to you?
2SA 10:4 And Hanun took the servants of David, and shaved their beards, and cut off their uniforms in half unto their hips, and sent them out.
2SA 10:5 And it was reported to David concerning the men. And he sent to meet them, for the men were dishonored exceedingly. And the king said, Stay in Jericho until your beards rise, and you shall return.
2SA 10:6 And the sons of Ammon saw that the people of David were disgraced. And the sons of Ammon sent and hired the Syrian of Beth-rehob, and the Syrian of Zoba - twenty thousand footmen, and the king of Maacah - a thousand men, and the one of Tob - twelve thousand men.
2SA 10:7 And David heard, and sent Joab, and all the force of the mighty ones.
2SA 10:8 And the sons of Ammon came forth, and deployed for war by the door of the gate. And the Syrian Zoba, and Rehob, and Ishtob, and Maacah were by themselves in the field.
2SA 10:9 And Joab beheld that it came to pass that the war was facing him from the face right opposite, and from the rear, that he chose from out of all the young men of Israel, and they deployed right opposite Syria.
2SA 10:10 And the rest of the people he put into the hand of Abishai his brother, and they deployed right opposite the sons of Ammon.
2SA 10:11 And he said, If Syria should strengthen over me, then you shall be to me for deliverance. And if the sons of Ammon should be strengthened over you, then I will come to deliver you.
2SA 10:12 Be manly! for we should be strengthened for our people, and for the cities of our God. And the LORD will do good in his eyes.
2SA 10:13 And Joab approached, and his people with him, for war against Syria. And they fled from his face.
2SA 10:14 And the sons of Ammon beheld that Syria has fled, and they fled from the face of Abishai, and entered into the city. And Joab returned from the sons of Ammon, and came unto Jerusalem.
2SA 10:15 And Syria beheld that it failed in front of Israel; and they gathered together at the same place.
2SA 10:16 And Hadarezer sent, and gathered together the Syrian from the other side of the river, and they came unto Helam. And Shobach the commander-in-chief of Hadarezer was in front of them.
2SA 10:17 And it was reported to David, and he gathered together all Israel, and passed over the Jordan, and came to Helam. And Syria deployed before David, and waged war with him.
2SA 10:18 And Syria fled from the face of Israel; and David killed of the one from Syria - seven hundred chariots, and forty thousand horsemen. And Shobach his commander-in-chief he struck, and he died there.
2SA 10:19 And all the kings the servants of Hadarezer beheld that they failed in front of Israel. And they deserted after Israel, and served to them. And Syria feared to yet again deliver the sons of Ammon.
2SA 11:1 And it came to pass in the turning of the year into the time of the departure of the kings for battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they utterly destroyed the sons of Ammon, and besieged against Rabbah. But David stayed in Jerusalem.
2SA 11:2 And it came to pass towards evening, and David rose up from his bed, and walked upon the roof of the house of the king. And he beheld from the roof a woman bathing; and the woman was good to the appearance - exceedingly.
2SA 11:3 And David sent and sought the woman. And they said, Is not this Bath-sheba, daughter of Eliam, wife of Uriah the Hittite?
2SA 11:4 And David sent messengers, and took her. And he entered to her, and went to bed with her; and she was being set apart from her uncleanness. And she returned to her house.
2SA 11:5 And the woman conceived, and sent and reported to David, and said, I am one conceiving.
2SA 11:6 And David sent to Joab, saying, Send to me Uriah the Hittite! And Joab sent Uriah to David.
2SA 11:7 And Uriah came, and entered to him. And David asked for the peace of Joab, and for the peace of the people, and for the peace of the war.
2SA 11:8 And David said to Uriah, Go down to your house, even to wash your feet! And Uriah went forth from the house of the king, and there went forth after him a tribute from the king.
2SA 11:9 And Uriah went to bed by the door of the house of the king with all the servants of his master, and did not go down to his house.
2SA 11:10 And they reported to David, saying that, Uriah did not go down to his house. And David said to Uriah, Are you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?
2SA 11:11 And Uriah said to David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, dwell in tents; and my master Joab, and the man-servants of my master camp upon the face of the field; and shall I enter into my house to eat and to drink and to go to bed with my wife? By your life, and by the life of your soul, in no way shall I do this thing.
2SA 11:12 And David said to Uriah, Stay here also today, and tomorrow I will send you! And Uriah stayed in Jerusalem on that day, and the next day.
2SA 11:13 And David called him, and he ate before him, and drank - and he intoxicated him. And he went forth at evening to go to bed upon his bed with the servants of his master, but he did not go down unto his house.
2SA 11:14 And it became morning, and David wrote a scroll to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.
2SA 11:15 And he wrote in the scroll, saying, Bring Uriah right opposite the battle of the fortified part, and turn away from behind him, so that he shall be struck and shall die!
2SA 11:16 And it came to pass in Joab's guarding at the city, that he put Uriah into the place where he knew that men of power were there.
2SA 11:17 And the men of the city came forth, and waged war against Joab. And there fell some of the people of the servants of David; and even Uriah the Hittite died also.
2SA 11:18 And Joab sent and reported to David all the matters of the battle.
2SA 11:19 And Joab gave charge to the messenger, saying, In your completing all the matters of the battle speaking to the king,
2SA 11:20 that it shall be if the rage of the king ascends, and he should say to you, Why is it that you approached to the city to wage war? Did you not know that they would shoot from on top the wall?
2SA 11:21 Who struck Abimelech son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman toss a piece of millstone upon him from above the wall, and he died in Thebez? Why did you lead forward to the wall? And you shall say, And also your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead.
2SA 11:22 And the messenger of Joab came to the king in Jerusalem, and reported to David all as much as Joab spoke.
2SA 11:23 And the messenger said to David that, The men strengthened against us, and came forth against us into the field, and we came unto them unto the door of the gate.
2SA 11:24 And the ones shooting shot unto your servants from the wall, and there died some from the servants of the king, and even your subject Uriah the Hittite has died.
2SA 11:25 And David said to the messenger, Thus you shall say to Joab, Do not let this matter be severe in your eyes, for perhaps indeed it is thus one way, and perhaps thus another way that the broadsword devours; strengthen your battle against the city, and raze it, and strengthen against it.
2SA 11:26 And the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband has died, and she lamented over her husband.
2SA 11:27 And the time of mourning went by, and David sent and brought her into his house, and she became to him for a wife, and bore to him a son. And the matter which David did appeared wicked in the eyes of the LORD.
2SA 12:1 And the LORD sent Nathan the prophet to David. And he entered to him, and said to him, There were two men in one city - one rich and one needy.
2SA 12:2 And there was to the rich man flocks and herds - many, exceedingly.
2SA 12:3 And to the needy there was not anything, but only one small ewe-lamb which he acquired, and protected, and nourished it. And it matured with him, and with his sons at the same time. It ate from his bread, and drank from his cup, and slept in his bosom, and it was to him as a daughter.
2SA 12:4 And a traveller came to the rich man. And he spared to take from his flock, and from his herd, to prepare for the stranger coming to him. And he took the ewe-lamb of the needy man, and prepared it for the man coming to him.
2SA 12:5 And David was enraged in anger exceedingly against the man. And he said to Nathan, As the LORD lives, that man doing this is a son of death.
2SA 12:6 And for the ewe-lamb he shall pay four-fold, because he did this thing, and for which he did not spare.
2SA 12:7 And Nathan said to David, You are the man doing this thing. Thus says the LORD God of Israel, I anointed you for king over Israel, and I rescued you from out of the hand of Saul;
2SA 12:8 and I gave to you the house of your master, and the wives of your master into your bosom, and gave to you the house of Israel and Judah; and if it is little to you, I would have added to you as those.
2SA 12:9 Why is it that you treated as worthless the word of the LORD, to do the wicked thing in his eyes? Uriah the Hittite you struck by the broadsword, and his wife you took to yourself for wife, and him you killed by the broadsword of the sons of Ammon.
2SA 12:10 And now, the broadsword shall not depart from your house unto the eon. Because of this - that you treated me with contempt, and took the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be to you for a wife.
2SA 12:11 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I shall awaken evils against you from out of your house, and I shall take your wives before your eyes, and I will give them to your neighbor, and he shall go to bed with your wives before this sun.
2SA 12:12 For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before this sun.
2SA 12:13 And David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the LORD. And Nathan said to David, And the LORD cast aside your sin, and you shall not die.
2SA 12:14 Except that, in provoking to anger, you provoked to anger the enemies of the LORD in this thing, and indeed your son born to you - to death he will die.
2SA 12:15 And Nathan went forth to his house. And the LORD enfeebled the child which the wife of Uriah bore to David, and he was ill.
2SA 12:16 And David sought God for the boy. And David fasted with fasting, and entered and lodged upon the ground.
2SA 12:17 And the elders of his house rose up to him, to raise him from the ground; and he wanted not, and would not eat bread with them.
2SA 12:18 And it came to pass in the seventh day, and the boy died. And the servants of David feared to announce to him that, The boy has died. For they said, Behold, in the time the boy was still living, we spoke to him, and he did not listen to our voice. And how should we say to him that, The boy has died? for he shall do bad things.
2SA 12:19 And David perceived that his servants were whispering, and David comprehended that the boy has died. And David said to his servants, Has the boy died? And they said, He has died.
2SA 12:20 And David rose up from the ground, and bathed, and anointed himself, and changed his clothes. And he entered into the house of God, and did obeisance to him. And he entered unto his house, and asked for bread to eat. And they placed near to him bread, and he ate.
2SA 12:21 And his servants said to him, What is this thing which you do because of the boy? While still living you fasted, and wept, and were sleepless; and when the boy died, you rose up and ate bread and drank?
2SA 12:22 And David said, In the time the boy was still living, I fasted and wept. For I said, Who knows if the LORD will show mercy on me, and the boy shall live?
2SA 12:23 And now he has died, why this that I fast? I shall not be able to return him, yet I will go to him, but he shall not return to me.
2SA 12:24 And David comforted his wife Bath-sheba. And he entered to her, and went to bed with her. And she conceived, and gave birth to a son, and he called his name Solomon. And the LORD loved him.
2SA 12:25 And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet; and he called his name Jedidiah, by the word of the LORD.
2SA 12:26 And Joab waged war with Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and overtook the city of the kingdom.
2SA 12:27 And Joab sent messengers to David, and said, I waged war against Rabbah, and overtook the city of waters.
2SA 12:28 And now, gather together the rest of the people, and camp upon the city, and be the first to take it; that I should not be the first to take the city, and my name should be called upon it!
2SA 12:29 And David gathered together all the people, and went to Rabbah, and waged war against it, and overtook it.
2SA 12:30 And he took the crown of their king from his head, and its weight was a talent of gold, and of precious stone. And it was upon the head of David. And he brought forth exceedingly much spoils of the city.
2SA 12:31 And the people in it he led out and put to the saw, and to the threshing-machines of iron, and adz of iron, and led them through the brick-kiln. And thus he did to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. And David returned and all the people to Jerusalem.
2SA 13:1 And it happened after these things that there was to Absalom, son of David, a sister good to the sight - exceedingly. And her name was Tamar; and Amnon son of David loved her.
2SA 13:2 And Amnon was afflicted so as to be ill over Tamar his sister, for she was a virgin, and it was an enormous thing in the eyes of Amnon to do anything to her.
2SA 13:3 And there was a companion to Amnon, and his name was Jonadab, son of Shimeah the brother of David. And Jonadab was exceedingly practical.
2SA 13:4 And he said to him, What is it to you that thus you are weak morning by morning, O son of the king? Will you not report it to me? And Amnon said to him, Tamar, the sister of my brother Absalom, I love.
2SA 13:5 And Jonadab said to him, Go to bed in your bed, and be as infirm! And your father will enter to see you. And you shall say to him, Let indeed Tamar my sister come and feed me! And let her make food before my eyes, so that I should see, and should eat from her hand!
2SA 13:6 And Amnon went to bed, and became as ill. And the king entered to see him. And Amnon said to the king, Let indeed Tamar my sister come to me! And let her bake two biscuits before my eyes, and I will eat from her hand!
2SA 13:7 And David sent for Tamar to the house, saying, Go indeed to the house of Amnon your brother, and make food for him!
2SA 13:8 And Tamar went to the house of Amnon her brother. And with him being in bed, that she took the dough and mixed it, and made biscuits before his eyes, and baked the biscuits.
2SA 13:9 And she took the frying pan, and emptied it before him; and he did not want to eat. And Amnon said, Lead out every man from about me! And they led out every man about him.
2SA 13:10 And Amnon said to Tamar, Carry in to me the food to the bedroom, and I shall eat from out of your hand! And Tamar took the biscuits which she made, and carried them to Amnon her brother, into the bedroom.
2SA 13:11 And she brought to him to eat, and he took hold of her, and said to her, Come go to bed with me, my sister!
2SA 13:12 And she said to him, No, O my brother, you should not abase me, for it shall not be done so in Israel - you should not do this folly.
2SA 13:13 And I, where shall I carry away my scorn? And you will be as one of the foolish in Israel. And now, speak indeed to the king! For in no way will he restrain me from you.
2SA 13:14 And Amnon did not want to hear her voice. And he powered over her, and abased her, and went to bed with her.
2SA 13:15 And Amnon detested her with an exceedingly great hatred; for so great was the hatred which he detested her, that it was above the love which he loved her. And Amnon said to her, Rise up and go!
2SA 13:16 And Tamar said to him that, Great is the last evil over the first which you do with me, to send me away. And Amnon wanted not to hearken to her voice.
2SA 13:17 And he called his servant set over his house, and said to him, Send indeed this one from me outside, and lock the door after her!
2SA 13:18 And upon her was an inner garment with long sleeves, for thus the daughters of the king dressed - the virgins, the ones with their outer garments. And his minister led her outside, and locked the door after her.
2SA 13:19 And Tamar took ashes, and put them upon her head. And the inner garment with long sleeves upon her she tore; and she put her hands upon her head, and went going and crying out.
2SA 13:20 And Absalom her brother said to her, Has Amnon your brother been with you? and now my sister be silent, for he is your brother! Do not put it to your heart to say anything! And Tamar sat expiring in the house of Absalom her brother.
2SA 13:21 And king David heard all these words, and was enraged exceedingly.
2SA 13:22 And Absalom did not speak with Amnon from bad or good; for Absalom detested Amnon, for which he abased Tamar his sister.
2SA 13:23 And it came to pass after two whole years of days, that they were shearing for Absalom in Baal-hazor by Ephraim. And Absalom called all the sons of the king.
2SA 13:24 And Absalom came to the king, and said, Behold indeed, your servant shears. Let indeed the king go, and his servants with your servant.
2SA 13:25 And the king said to Absalom, No indeed, O my son, in no way should we all go ourselves, and in no way should we be burdensome upon you. And Absalom constrained him, and the king did not want to go, but he blessed him.
2SA 13:26 And Absalom said, And if not, let Amnon my brother go indeed with us! And the king said to him, Why should he go with you?
2SA 13:27 And Absalom constrained him, and he sent with him Amnon and all the sons of the king.
2SA 13:28 And Absalom gave charge to his servants, saying, Behold, when ever the heart of Amnon feels good with the wine, and I should say to you, Strike Amnon, and put him to death! you should not fear. For is it not I giving charge to you? Be manly, and become as sons of power!
2SA 13:29 And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as he gave charge to them. And all the sons of the king rose up, and each mounted upon his mule, and fled.
2SA 13:30 And it came to pass of their being in the way, that the report came to David, saying, Absalom struck all the sons of the king, and did not leave behind of them not even one.
2SA 13:31 And the king rose up, and tore his clothes, and laid upon the ground. And all his servants standing around him tore their clothes.
2SA 13:32 And Jonadab son of Shimeah brother of David answered and said, Let not my master the king say that all the boys of the sons of the king he put to death! But only Amnon alone died, for by the mouth of Absalom it was situated to be from the day of which he abased Tamar his sister.
2SA 13:33 And now, let not my master the king put the matter upon his heart! saying that, All the sons of the king died - for only Amnon alone died.
2SA 13:34 And Absalom ran away. And the servant watchman lifted his eyes, and looked, and behold, there were many people going in the way behind him from out of the side of the mountain.
2SA 13:35 And Jonadab said to the king, Behold, the sons of the king are at hand; according to the word of your servant, thus it has happened.
2SA 13:36 And it came to pass, when he completed speaking, that behold, the sons of the king came, and lifted up their voice and wept. And indeed the king and all his servants wept an exceedingly great weeping.
2SA 13:37 And Absalom ran away, and went to Talmai, son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And the king mourned over his son all the days.
2SA 13:38 And Absalom fled, and went forth unto Geshur, and was there three years.
2SA 13:39 And the spirit of king David abated to go forth unto Absalom - for he was comforted concerning Amnon, that he died.
2SA 14:1 And Joab son of Zeruiah knew that the heart of the king was towards Absalom.
2SA 14:2 And Joab sent to Tekoah, and took from there a wise woman, and said to her, You mourn indeed, and put on mournful garments, and do not anoint yourself with oil, and be as a woman mourning for many days for one having died!
2SA 14:3 And you shall come to the king, and you shall speak to him according to this thing. And Joab put the words into her mouth.
2SA 14:4 And the Tekoahite woman entered to the king, and fell upon her face to the ground, and did obeisance to him, and said, Deliver, O king, deliver!
2SA 14:5 And the king said to her, What to you is it? And she said, By all means I am a widow woman, and my husband died.
2SA 14:6 And indeed to your maidservant are two sons, and they both quarreled in the field, and there was not one for rescuing between them, and the one hit his one brother, and killed him.
2SA 14:7 And behold, the entire family rose up against your maidservant, and said, Give over the one hitting his brother, and we shall kill him, on account of the life of his brother whom he killed - and we shall take away the heir. And so they shall extinguish my spark of coal being left behind to me, so as to not establish to my husband a vestige and name upon the face of the earth.
2SA 14:8 And the king said to the woman, Go to your house being in health, and I will take charge concerning you!
2SA 14:9 And the Tekoahite woman said to the king, O my master, O king, upon me be the iniquity, and upon the house of my father; and the king and his throne be innocent!
2SA 14:10 And the king said, The one speaking to you a word, lead him to me, and in no way shall anyone proceed yet to touch you!
2SA 14:11 And the woman said, Let now the king remember indeed the LORD your God, in not multiplying a relative for blood utterly destroying, that in no way they should take away my son! And he said, As the LORD lives, there shall not fall of the hair of your son upon the ground.
2SA 14:12 And the woman said, Let your maidservant speak indeed to my master the king a thing! And he said, Speak!
2SA 14:13 And the woman said, Why have you imputed thus upon the people of God? Yes, by the king speaking this word it is as a trespass, for the king to not return the one being thrust away by him.
2SA 14:14 For to death we shall die, and are as the water being discharged upon the earth, not being gathered together; that God shall not take the life; yet he himself devises a device to not thrust away from him the one being thrusted away.
2SA 14:15 And now for which I came to speak to my master the king this word, for the people see me; and your maidservant will say, Let your maidservant speak indeed to my master the king; if by any means the king shall do the matter of his maidservant.
2SA 14:16 For the king shall hear to rescue his maidservant from out of the hand of the man seeking to take me away, and my son, from the inheritance of God.
2SA 14:17 And said your maidservant, Let be indeed the word of my master the king for an accepted sacrifice. For as a messenger of God, thus is my master the king, to hear the good and the bad - and the LORD your God will be with you.
2SA 14:18 And the king answered and said to the woman, You should not indeed hide from me the matter which ever I shall ask you. And the woman said, Let indeed my master the king speak!
2SA 14:19 And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab in all this with you? And the woman answered and said to the king, As your soul lives, O my master, O king, since there is no turning to the right or to the left of all which my master the king spoke; for your servant Joab himself gave charge to me, and he put all these words in the mouth of your maidservant.
2SA 14:20 So as for the face of this matter to come about, thus Joab your servant did this thing. And my master the king is wise as the wisdom of a messenger of God, to know all the things in the land.
2SA 14:21 And the king said to Joab, Behold indeed, I do to you according to this your word. Go return the young man Absalom!
2SA 14:22 And Joab fell upon his face upon the ground, and did obeisance, and blessed the king. And Joab said, Today your servant knows that he found favor in your eyes, O my master, O king, for my master the king did the matter for his servant.
2SA 14:23 And Joab rose up and went into Geshur, and led Absalom into Jerusalem.
2SA 14:24 And the king said, Let him return to his house, but let him not see my face! And Absalom returned to his house, but the face of the king he did not see.
2SA 14:25 And there was not a man as Absalom in all Israel as exceedingly praiseworthy. From the sole of his foot and unto the top of his head there was not a blemish on him.
2SA 14:26 And in his shearing of his head, (and it took place at the end of days unto days that he sheared it, for it became burdensome upon him, and thus was shearing it,) he set aside the hair of his head - two hundred shekels of the royal scale-weight.
2SA 14:27 And there was born to Absalom three sons and one daughter, and her name was Tamar - she was an exceedingly goodly woman.
2SA 14:28 And Absalom stayed in Jerusalem two years of days, and the face of the king he did not see.
2SA 14:29 And Absalom sent for Joab to send him to the king; and he did not want to come to him. And he sent again the second time to him, and he did not want to come.
2SA 14:30 And Absalom said to his servants, You know the portion in the field of Joab being next to mine, and to him is barley there; go and burn it by fire! And the servants of Absalom burned by fire the portion of the field of Joab.
2SA 14:31 And Joab rose up, and came to Absalom, to the house, and said to him, Why did your servants set on fire my field with fire?
2SA 14:32 And Absalom said to Joab, Behold, I sent to you, saying, Come here! And I will send you to the king, saying, Why did I come from out of Geshur? it was good for me to be there. And now, I shall see indeed the face of the king; and if there is iniquity in me then I shall be killed.
2SA 14:33 And Joab went to the king, and reported to him. And he called Absalom, and he entered to the king, and did obeisance to him, and fell upon his face upon the ground before the king. And the king kissed Absalom.
2SA 15:1 And it came to pass after these things, that Absalom prepared to himself chariots, and horsemen, and fifty men to run along in front of him.
2SA 15:2 And Absalom rose early, and stood at the way of the gate. And it came to pass, every man which had a case, and came to the king for a judgment, that Absalom called him, and said to him, From out of of what city are you? And he said, Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.
2SA 15:3 And Absalom said to him, Behold, your words are good and well-tempered; but there is not one hearing you from the king.
2SA 15:4 And Absalom said, Why shall he not place me for judge in the land, and every man shall come to me to whom ever might be a dispute, and a case, and I will do justice for him.
2SA 15:5 And it came to pass, when the man approached to do obeisance to him, that he stretched out his hand, and took hold of him, and kissed him.
2SA 15:6 And Absalom did according to this thing to all Israel, to the ones coming for a judgment to the king. And Absalom adopted the heart of the men of Israel.
2SA 15:7 And it came to pass at the end of forty years, that Absalom said to his father, I will go indeed and pay my vows, which I vowed to the LORD, in Hebron.
2SA 15:8 For your servant vowed a vow in my living in Geshur in Syria, saying, If in returning the LORD shall return me to Jerusalem, then I will serve to the LORD.
2SA 15:9 And the king said to him, Proceed in peace! And rising up, he went unto Hebron.
2SA 15:10 And Absalom sent spies into all the tribes of Israel, saying, In your hearing the sound of the trumpet, that you shall say, Absalom reigns in Hebron.
2SA 15:11 And two hundred chosen men went with Absalom from out of Jerusalem; and they went in simplicity, and they did not know, not one thing.
2SA 15:12 And Absalom sent and called Ahithophel the Gilonite, counselor to David, from out of his city Giloh, during his sacrificing the sacrifices. And there was a strong confederation; and the people went and multiplied with Absalom.
2SA 15:13 And one came reporting to David, saying, The heart of the men of Israel is committed after Absalom.
2SA 15:14 And David said to all his servants with him in Jerusalem, Rise up, and we should flee, for there is not a deliverance for us from the face of Absalom! Hasten to go, that he should not hasten and overtake us, and thrust evil upon us, and should strike the city by the mouth of the broadsword!
2SA 15:15 And the servants of the king said to the king, According to all as much as seems good to our master the king, behold, we are your servants.
2SA 15:16 And the king went forth, and all his house on their feet. And the king left ten women of his concubines to guard the house.
2SA 15:17 And the king went forth, and all his people by foot, and set up in a house far away.
2SA 15:18 And all his servants passed by his hand; and every Cherethite, and every Pelethite, and all the Gittites - six hundred men having come from out of Gath, by foot, were passing in front of the king.
2SA 15:19 And the king said to Ittai the Gittite, Why should you go even yourself with us? Return and live with the king! For you are an alien yourself, and because you are displaced from out of your place.
2SA 15:20 Since you came yesterday, then today shall I move you to go with us? and I shall go where ever I shall go. Go, and return your brothers with you; and the LORD shall execute with you an act of kindness and truth!
2SA 15:21 And Ittai answered the king, and said, As the LORD lives, and as my master the king lives, that unto the place where ever my master the king might be, and if unto death, or if unto life, that there your servant will be.
2SA 15:22 And David said to Ittai, Go, and pass over with me! And Ittai the Gittite went, and all the men with him, and all his servants.
2SA 15:23 And all the land wept with a great voice, and all the people passed through the rushing stream of the Kidron. And the king passed over the rushing stream Kidron, and all the people came unto the face of the way of the wilderness.
2SA 15:24 And behold, also indeed Zadok, and all the Levites were with him lifting the ark of the covenant of God. And they stationed the ark of God; and Abiathar ascended until all the people ceased going out of the city.
2SA 15:25 And the king said to Zadok, Return the ark of God unto the city! If I should find favor in the eyes of the LORD, and he returns me, then he shall show it to me, and its beauty.
2SA 15:26 And if he should say thus, I have not a want in you; behold, here am I, I let him do to me the pleasing thing before him.
2SA 15:27 And the king said to Zadok the priest, Behold, you return to the city in peace, and Ahimaaz your son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar, the two sons of yours with you!
2SA 15:28 Behold, I wait for you in the wilderness of the desert until the coming of a word by you to report to me.
2SA 15:29 And Zadok and Abiathar returned the ark of God to Jerusalem, and it stayed there.
2SA 15:30 And David ascended upon the ascent of the olive groves, ascending and weeping, and his head being covered over, and he went barefoot. And all the people with him - each man covered his head, and ascended - ascending and weeping.
2SA 15:31 And it was announced to David, saying, And Ahithophel is among the ones confederating with Absalom. And David said, O LORD my God, efface indeed the counsel of Ahithophel!
2SA 15:32 And David was coming unto Ros, where he did obeisance there to God. And behold, Hushai the chief friend of David was come for meeting him, tearing his inner garment, with earth upon his head.
2SA 15:33 And David said to him, If you should go through with me, then you will be unto me a load.
2SA 15:34 If you should return into the city, then you shall say to Absalom, I am your servant, O king; allow me to live! for I was a servant of your father then and just now, and now I am your servant. And by saying this efface to me the counsel of Ahithophel!
2SA 15:35 And behold, there are with you Zadok and Abiathar the priests. And it will be every word which ever you should hear from out of the house of the king, that you shall report it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests.
2SA 15:36 Behold, their two sons are with them there, Ahimaaz son of Zadok, and Jonathan son of Abiathar; and you shall send by their hand to me every word which ever you should hear.
2SA 15:37 And Hushai the friend of David entered into the city, and Absalom at present entered into Jerusalem.
2SA 16:1 And David went through a little way from Ros, and behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth arrived for meeting him, and a pair of donkeys being saddled, and upon them two hundred breads, and an ephah of dried grape clusters, and a hundred dried fruit clusters, and a skin flask of wine.
2SA 16:2 And the king said to Ziba, What are these to you? And Ziba said, The donkeys for the household of the king to mount, and the breads, and the dried fruit clusters, and dried grapes for food to the servants; and the wine to drink to the one faint in the wilderness.
2SA 16:3 And the king said, Where is the son of your master? And Ziba said to the king, Behold, he sits in Jerusalem, for he said, Today the house of Israel shall return to me the kingdom of my father.
2SA 16:4 And the king said to Ziba, Behold, I give to you all as much as is Mephibosheth's. And Ziba said, I do obeisance, may I find favor in your eyes, O my master, O king.
2SA 16:5 And king David came until Bahurim, and behold, from there a man came forth from the family of the house of Saul, and the name to him was Shimei, son of Gera - he came forth coming and cursing,
2SA 16:6 and throwing stones at David, and at all the servants of king David, and all the people, and all the mighty ones of the right and of the left of the king.
2SA 16:7 And thus Shimei said in his cursing, Go forth, go forth, O man of the blood sheddings, and O man the lawbreaker!
2SA 16:8 The LORD returned upon you all the blood of the house of Saul, because you reigned instead of him; and the LORD gave the kingdom into the hand of Absalom your son. And behold, you are taken in your own evil, for you are a man of blood.
2SA 16:9 And Abishai son of Zeruiah said to the king, Why does this dying dog curse my master the king? Let me pass indeed, and I shall remove his head!
2SA 16:10 And the king said to Abishai, What is it to me and to you, sons of Zeruiah? Even allow him, and thus let him curse! For the LORD said to him to curse David. And who shall say to him, Why did you do thus?
2SA 16:11 And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, the one coming forth from out of my belly, seeks my life. And moreover, now the son of the Benjamite. Leave him to curse! for the LORD told him.
2SA 16:12 If by any means the LORD may behold in my humiliation, and shall return good to me for his curse this day - so be it!
2SA 16:13 And David went, and all his men in the way. And Shimei went according to the side of the mountain being next to him - he went, and cursed, and cast stones on him, and was strewing dust.
2SA 16:14 And the king went and all the people with him being faint, and they refreshed there.
2SA 16:15 And Absalom, and every man of Israel entered into Jerusalem, and Ahithophel was with him.
2SA 16:16 And it came to pass when Hushai the chief friend of David came to Absalom, that Hushai said to Absalom, Let live the king! Let live the king!
2SA 16:17 And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this your act of kindness with your companion? Why did you not go with your companion?
2SA 16:18 And Hushai said to Absalom, No; but after whoever the LORD chooses, and this people, and every man of Israel - I will be serving to him, and I shall sit down with him.
2SA 16:19 And secondly, to whom shall I serve? Should I not serve before his son? Just as I served before your father, so I will be before you.
2SA 16:20 And Absalom said to Ahithophel, Give counsel for yourselves what we should do.
2SA 16:21 And Ahithophel said to Absalom, Enter to the concubines of your father, which he left behind to guard his house! And all Israel shall hear that you disgraced your father; and the hands of all the ones with you shall grow in strength.
2SA 16:22 And they pitched the tent belonging to Absalom upon the roof. And Absalom entered to the concubines of his father, in the eyes of all Israel.
2SA 16:23 And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he consulted in the first days, was in which manner as if he should ask anything by the word of God - thus was all the counsel of Ahithophel, both to David and to Absalom.
2SA 17:1 And Ahithophel said to Absalom, I shall choose indeed for myself twelve thousand men, and I shall rise up and pursue after David at night.
2SA 17:2 And I shall come upon him, and he will be tiring and loosening his hand, and I shall startle him; and all the people with him shall flee, and I shall strike the king alone.
2SA 17:3 And I shall return all the people to you, in which manner a bride returns to her husband. Besides you seek the life of one man, and all the people will be at peace.
2SA 17:4 And the word was pleasing in the eyes of Absalom, and in the eyes of all the elders of Israel.
2SA 17:5 And Absalom said, Call indeed Hushai the Archite, and I shall hear what is in his mouth, and indeed of him.
2SA 17:6 And Hushai entered to Absalom. And Absalom said to him, saying, According to this thing Ahithophel spoke. Shall we do according to his word? But if not; you speak!
2SA 17:7 And Hushai said to Absalom, It is not good, this counsel which Ahithophel counseled this one time.
2SA 17:8 And Hushai said, You know your father, and his men, that they are exceedingly mighty, and their soul is very bitter as a bear being made childless in the plain. And your father is a warrior man, and in no way shall he rest the people.
2SA 17:9 For behold, he now hides in one of the canyons, or in one of the places. And it will be when they fall upon them at the beginning, that one shall hear the hearing, and should say, There was a devastation among the people following after Absalom.
2SA 17:10 And indeed any son of power whose heart is as the heart of a lion, in melting away shall melt away; for all Israel knows that your father is mighty, and the sons of power are all with him.
2SA 17:11 Thus advising, I advised. And all Israel in gathering together shall gather together unto you, from Dan and unto Beer-sheba, as the sand upon the sea in multitude; and your presence shall be going in the midst of them.
2SA 17:12 And we shall come upon him in one of the places, which ever we should find him there, and shall camp upon him as falls the dew upon the ground. And we shall not leave behind in him, and of his men with him, even indeed one.
2SA 17:13 And, if he should gather into the city, then all Israel shall take lines against that city, and drag it apart unto the rushing stream - unto not leaving behind there neither a stone.
2SA 17:14 And Absalom said, and every man of Israel, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is good over the counsel of Ahithophel. And the LORD gave charge to efface the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that the LORD should bring the bad things upon Absalom.
2SA 17:15 And Hushai said to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, So and so advised Ahithophel to Absalom, and to the elders of Israel, and so and so I advised.
2SA 17:16 And now send quickly and report to David! saying, You should not lodge the night according to the descent of the wilderness, but by passing over, pass over, so that the king should not be swallowed down, and all the people with him!
2SA 17:17 And Jonathan and Ahimaaz stopped at the spring of Rogel; and came forth the maidservant, and she reported to them. And they went and reported to king David, for they were not able to appear to enter into the city.
2SA 17:18 And a young man beheld them, and he reported to Absalom. And the two went quickly, and they entered into a house of a man in Bahurim, and unto his cistern in the courtyard, and went down there.
2SA 17:19 And a woman took and opened and spread out a covering over the mouth of the cistern. And she cooled dried clusters upon it, and they did not know the thing.
2SA 17:20 And the servants of Absalom came to the woman, into the house, and said, Where is Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said to them, They went for a little water. And they sought and did not find them, and they returned unto Jerusalem.
2SA 17:21 And it came to pass, after their going forth, they ascended from out of the cistern, and went, and reported to king David. And they say to him, Rise up and pass over the water quickly! For thus Ahithophel has counseled against you.
2SA 17:22 And David rose up, and all the people with him, and passed over the Jordan until the light of the morning, until one was not unaware of who did not pass over the Jordan.
2SA 17:23 And Ahithophel knew that he had not taken his counsel. And he saddled his donkey, and rose up, and went forth to his house in his city. And he gave charge to his household, and he hung himself, and died. And they entombed him in the burying-place of his father.
2SA 17:24 And David went through unto Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over the Jordan, he and every man of Israel with him.
2SA 17:25 And Absalom placed Amasa instead of Joab over the force. And Amasa was a son of a man, and the name to him was Ithra the Israelite, who entered to Abigail daughter of Nahash, sister of Zeruiah the mother of Joab.
2SA 17:26 And Absalom camped, and all Israel, in the land of Gilead.
2SA 17:27 And it came to pass when David entered into Mahanaim, that Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and Machir the son of Ammiel of Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim,
2SA 17:28 brought beds, and spreads, and kettles, and ceramic utensils, and wheat, and barley, and flour, and beans, and lentils and toasted grain,
2SA 17:29 and honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese from oxen. And they brought near to David, and to the people with him to eat; for they said, The people are hungering, and fainting, and thirsting, in the wilderness.
2SA 18:1 And David numbered all the people with him, and placed over them commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds.
2SA 18:2 And David sent away the people, the third under the hand of Joab, and the third under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, and the third under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the people, In going forth, I shall go forth, even indeed I myself with you.
2SA 18:3 And the people said, You shall not go forth. For if we should flee into exile, they shall not put upon us to heart. And if half of us should die they shall not put upon us to heart. For you are as ten thousand of us. And now it is good that you will be with us in the city for our helper.
2SA 18:4 And the king said to them, The pleasing thing before you I will do. And the king stood by the side of the gate, and all the people went forth by hundreds and by thousands.
2SA 18:5 And the king gave charge to Joab and to Abishai and to Ittai, saying, Spare for me the young man Absalom! And all the people heard the king giving charge to all the rulers concerning Absalom.
2SA 18:6 And all the people went forth into the field for meeting Israel. And the battle happened in the grove of Ephraim.
2SA 18:7 And the people of Israel failed there before the children of David. And there became a great devastation in that day - twenty thousand men.
2SA 18:8 And it came to pass there the war dispersed over the face of all the land. And the forest was superabundant in devouring of the people above what the sword devoured among the people in that day.
2SA 18:9 And Absalom met before the servants of David. And Absalom was mounted upon the mule, and the mule was entering under the thicket of the great oak, and his head was twisted in the oak, and he hung between the heaven and between the earth, and the mule underneath him went on.
2SA 18:10 And one man saw it, and announced to Joab, and said, Behold, I have seen Absalom hanging in the oak.
2SA 18:11 And Joab said to the man announcing to him, And behold, you saw it? And why is it that you did not strike him there to the ground, and I would have given to you ten shekels of silver, and one sash?
2SA 18:12 And the man said to Joab, And if you rendered unto my hands a thousand shekels of silver, not in any way shall I put my hand against the son of the king. For in our ears the king gave charge to you, and to Abishai, and to Ittai, saying, Guard for me the young man Absalom,
2SA 18:13 to not do anything injust against his life! And all the matter will not be kept unaware from the king, and you shall set yourself right opposite me.
2SA 18:14 And Joab said, This I begin - not thus shall I remain before you. And Joab took three arrows in his hand, and he stuck them in the heart of Absalom while yet he was living, in the heart of the oak.
2SA 18:15 And there encircled ten young men lifting the weapons of Joab, and they struck Absalom, and killed him.
2SA 18:16 And Joab trumped with the trumpet, and the people returned to not pursue after Israel, for Joab spared the people.
2SA 18:17 And Joab took Absalom, and he tossed him into a great chasm in the grove, into the great pit, and set over him a heap of exceedingly great stones. And all Israel fled each to his tent.
2SA 18:18 And Absalom yet living took and set for himself a monument in the valley of the king. For he said, There is not to me a son who shall record my name. And he called the monument by his name. And he called it Hand of Absalom - until this day.
2SA 18:19 And Ahimaaz son of Zadok said, Running indeed, I will announce good news to the king, that the LORD passed judgment to him on the hand of his enemies.
2SA 18:20 And Joab said to him, You are not a man of good news in this day, but you shall announce good news in another day. But in this day you shall not announce good news, for a son of the king has died.
2SA 18:21 And Joab said to Cushi, Go, announce to the king what you have seen! And Cushi did obeisance to Joab, and ran.
2SA 18:22 And Ahimaaz son of Zadok added still, and said to Joab, Also let it be that I run also indeed myself after Cushi! And Joab said, Why do you run, my son - there is not good news to you for benefit in going?
2SA 18:23 And Ahimaaz said, For what if I shall run? And Joab said to him, Run! And Ahimaaz ran by the way of Kechar, and he surpassed Cushi.
2SA 18:24 And David was sitting between the two gates, and the watchman went onto the roof of the gate house, unto the wall. And he lifted his eyes and saw, and behold, a man was running alone before him.
2SA 18:25 And the watchman yelled out, and reported to the king. And the king said, If he is alone good news is in his mouth. And he went along, coming and approaching.
2SA 18:26 And the watchman saw another man running. And the watchman yelled out at the gate, and said, Behold, another man is running alone. And the king said, Also this one is announcing good news.
2SA 18:27 And the watchman said, I see the racing of the first as the racing of Ahimaaz son of Zadok. And the king said, This is a good man, and indeed for good news he shall come.
2SA 18:28 And Ahimaaz yelled and said to the king, Peace. And he did obeisance to the king upon his face upon the ground. And he said, Blessed be the LORD your God, who shut up the men lifting their hand against my master the king.
2SA 18:29 And the king said, Is there peace to the young man Absalom? And Ahimaaz said, I saw the great multitude being gladdened in the sending Joab the servant of the king, and your servant, and I do not know what happened there.
2SA 18:30 And the king said, Turn aside and stand by here! And he turned aside and stood.
2SA 18:31 And behold, Cushi came. And Cushi said to the king, Let there be good news announced, O my master the king! For the LORD passed judgment for you today of the hand of all the ones rousing against you.
2SA 18:32 And the king said to Cushi, How is the peace to the young man Absalom? And Cushi said, Let be as that young man, the enemies of my master the king, and all as many as rise up against you for evils!
2SA 18:33 And the king was disturbed, and ascended into the upper room of the gate and wept. And so he said as he wept, O My son Absalom, O my son, O my son Absalom, what might my death give instead of you - I instead of you, Absalom, O my son, O my son.
2SA 19:1 And it was announced to Joab, saying, Behold, the king weeps and mourns over Absalom.
2SA 19:2 And the deliverance in that day became for mourning to all the people. For the people heard in that day, saying that, The king frets for his son.
2SA 19:3 And the people stole away in that day to enter into the city, as people steal away being shamed in their fleeing in the battle.
2SA 19:4 And the king hid his face, and the king cried out with a great voice, saying, O my son, Absalom, Absalom, O my son.
2SA 19:5 And Joab entered to the king into the house, and said, You disgraced today the faces of all your servants delivering your life today, and the life of your sons, and of your daughters, and the life of your wives, and the life of your concubines,
2SA 19:6 to love the ones detesting you, and to detest the ones loving you, that you identify today that your rulers are nothing to you, nor your servants. For I know that Absalom, if he were alive today, and even all we had died, that then it would have been pleasing before you.
2SA 19:7 And now, arise, go forth and speak unto the heart of your servants! For by the LORD I swear by an oath, that unless you should go forth, in no way should a man remain with you this night. And realize this in yourself, that this evil will be upon you over all the evil coming upon you from your youth unto the present!
2SA 19:8 And the king rose up, and sat at the gate. And all the people announced, saying, Behold, the king sits down at the gate. And all the people came before the king. And Israel fled, each to his tent.
2SA 19:9 And all the people were arguing among all the tribes of Israel, saying, King David rescued us from the hand of all our enemies, and he delivered us from the hand of the Philistines; and now he fled from the land.
2SA 19:10 And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, died in the war. And now, why are you silent to return the king? And the saying by all Israel came to the king.
2SA 19:11 And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, Speak to the elders of Judah! saying, Why have you become last to return the king to his house? And the word of all Israel came to the king.
2SA 19:12 You are my brothers, of my bones and of my flesh. Why have you become for the last ones to return the king to his house?
2SA 19:13 And to Amasa you shall say, Are you not of my bone and of my flesh? And now, thus may God do to me, and thus add more, if you shall not be ruler of the force before me all the days instead of Joab.
2SA 19:14 And he leaned the heart of every man of Judah, as one man. And they sent to the king, saying, You return, and all your servants!
2SA 19:15 And the king returned, and came unto the Jordan. And the men of Judah came to Gilgal to go to meet the king, to cause the king to pass over the Jordan.
2SA 19:16 And Shimei son of Gera son of the Benjaminite from Bahurim hastened, and went down with the men of Judah to meet king David.
2SA 19:17 And there were a thousand men with him from Benjamin, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons, and his twenty servants with him. And they went straight unto the Jordan before the king.
2SA 19:18 And he passed over the ford to arouse the household of the king, and to do the upright thing in his eyes. And Shimei son of Gera fell upon his face before the king, at his passing over the Jordan.
2SA 19:19 And he said to the king, Let not indeed my master consider my lawlessness! And remember not as much as your servant did wrong in the day in which my master the king went forth from Jerusalem, for the king to put it upon his heart!
2SA 19:20 For your servant knows that I have sinned. And behold, I have come today first of all of the house of Joseph to go down myself for the meeting of my master the king.
2SA 19:21 And Abishai son of Zeruiah answered and said, For this should not Shimei be put to death, for he cursed the anointed one of the LORD?
2SA 19:22 And David said, Why is it to me and to you, sons of Zeruiah, that you become to me today to plot? Shall today any man of Israel be put to death - I know not that today I shall reign over Israel.
2SA 19:23 And the king said to Shimei, You shall not die. And the king swore by an oath to him.
2SA 19:24 And Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, son of Saul went down for a meeting with the king, and attended not to his feet, nor prepared his mustache, and his garments he did not wash from the day which the king went forth until the day which he came in peace.
2SA 19:25 And it came to pass, when he entered into Jerusalem for a meeting with the king, that the king said to him, Why is it that you did not go with me, Mephibosheth?
2SA 19:26 And Mephibosheth said to him, O my master, O king, my servant misled me, for your servant said to him, Saddle to me the donkey, and I should mount upon it and go with the king, for your servant is lame.
2SA 19:27 And he used craft with your servant against my master the king. But my master the king is as a messenger of God; and you do what is good in your eyes!
2SA 19:28 For there was not any to the house of my father, but only men for death to my master the king. And you put your servant to eat at your table. And what reason is there to me still even to cry out still to the king?
2SA 19:29 And the king said to him, Why do you still speak your words? I said, You and Ziba divide the field!
2SA 19:30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, And let him take all the things after the coming of my master the king in peace to his house.
2SA 19:31 And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim, and passed over the Jordan with the king, to send him forward from the Jordan.
2SA 19:32 And Barzillai was an exceedingly old man, a son of eighty years, and he nourished the king during his living in Mahanaim, for he was a very great man.
2SA 19:33 And the king said to Barzillai, You shall pass over with me, and I will nourish your old age with me in Jerusalem.
2SA 19:34 And Barzillai said to the king, How many are the days of years of my life that I should ascend with the king unto Jerusalem?
2SA 19:35 I am today a son of eighty years. Can I know between good and between bad? Shall your servant still taste what I shall eat or shall drink? Shall I hear still the voice of singing men and singing women? Then why should your servant be a load upon my master the king?
2SA 19:36 For your servant shall pass over the Jordan a little with the king. And why does my master the king recompense to me this recompense?
2SA 19:37 indeed let your servant be returned, and I shall die in my city, by the burying-place of my father and of my mother! And behold, your servant Chimham my son shall pass over with my master the king; and you shall do to him the pleasing thing before you.
2SA 19:38 And the king said, Let Chimham pass over with me, and I will do to him the pleasing thing before you; and what ever orders you should give to me, that I will do for you.
2SA 19:39 And all the people passed over the Jordan. And the king was established. And the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him, and returned to his people.
2SA 19:40 And the king passed over into Gilgal, and Chimham passed over with him. And all the people of Judah caused him to pass over, and half of the people of Israel.
2SA 19:41 And behold, every man of Israel came to the king. And they said to the king, Why is it that our brothers the men of Judah stole you, and caused the king and his household to pass over the Jordan, and all the men of David with him?
2SA 19:42 And the men of Judah answered to the men of Israel, and said, For the king is a near relative to us. And why is this you are enraged on account of this matter? Or in eating have we eaten any food from the king, or a gift given to us?
2SA 19:43 And the men of Israel answered to the men of Judah, and said, There are ten hands to me in the king, also indeed in David I am over you. And why is it that you insult me, and why was my word not taken first to return the king to me? And the saying of the men of Judah was hardened above the saying of the men of Israel.
2SA 20:1 And a man was encountered there - a mischievous son, and his name was Sheba son of Bichri, a man of Benjamin. And he trumped the trumpet, and said, There is not to us a portion among David, nor an inheritance in the son of Jesse - each man to his tents, O Israel.
2SA 20:2 And every man of Israel ascended from behind David, to follow after Sheba son of Bichri. But the men of Judah cleaved to their king, from the Jordan and unto Jerusalem.
2SA 20:3 And David entered unto his house in Jerusalem; and the king took the ten women of his concubines, whom he left behind to guard the house, and gave them to be for a house guard, and nourished them, but did not enter to them. And they were held until the days of their death, living as widows.
2SA 20:4 And the king said to Amasa, Call to me men of Judah in three days, but you stand here!
2SA 20:5 And Amasa went to summon Judah, and he passed beyond the time which David ordered him.
2SA 20:6 And David said to Abishai, Now Sheba son of Bichri shall do us evil above Absalom. And now take with yourself the servants of your master, and pursue after him, so that he should not find fortified cities for himself, and should shadow our eyes!
2SA 20:7 And the men of Joab went forth after him, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and all the mighty ones. And they went forth from Jerusalem to pursue after Sheba son of Bichri.
2SA 20:8 And they were by the great stone in Gibeon, and Amasa entered in front of them. And Joab was being girded with his uniform garment, and upon him was a sword being tied around being teamed up on his loin in its sheath. And the sword came forth and fell.
2SA 20:9 And Joab said to Amasa, Are you in health, my brother? And the right hand of Joab constrained the beard of Amasa to kiss him.
2SA 20:10 And Amasa did not guard from the sword in the hand of Joab. And Joab hit him with it in his flank, and his belly poured out upon the ground, and it was not repeated a second time to him, and he died. And Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba son of Bichri.
2SA 20:11 And a man stood by him, one of the servants of Joab. And he said, Who is the one wanting Joab, and who is the one wanting David? Be behind Joab.
2SA 20:12 And Amasa having died, and being befouled in the blood, was in the middle of the road. And a man beheld that all the people stood, and he returned Amasa from the road to the field, and cast upon him a cloak, for he beheld that every one coming stopped by him.
2SA 20:13 And it came to pass when he removed him from out of the road, all the people of Israel went by after Joab, to pursue after Sheba son of Bichri.
2SA 20:14 And he went through among all the tribes of Israel, to Abel and Beth-maacah. And they were assembled, and they came after him.
2SA 20:15 And they came and assaulted against him in Abel and Beth-maacah, and they cast a seige mound against the city, and it stood in the area around the wall. And all the people with Joab purposed to throw down the wall.
2SA 20:16 And a wise woman yelled out from the city, and said, Hearken indeed! Hearken! Say indeed to Joab, Approach unto here, and I will speak to him!
2SA 20:17 And he drew near to her. And the woman said, Are you Joab? And he said, I am. And she said to him, Hear the words of your maidservant! And he said, I am listening.
2SA 20:18 And she said, saying, They spoke a word at first, saying, By asking they shall ask in Abel - and thus they ceased.
2SA 20:19 I am peaceable of ones supporting Israel. But you seek to kill a city, even a mother-city in Israel. Why do you swallow down the inheritance of the LORD?
2SA 20:20 And Joab answered, and said, May it not be to me to swallow it - and shall I utterly destroy it?
2SA 20:21 The word is not so. For a man from mount Ephraim, Sheba son of Bichri is his name, lifted up his hand against king David. Give him to me only, and I shall go forth from the city. And the woman said to Joab, Behold, I will toss his head to you over the wall.
2SA 20:22 And the woman went in to all the people, and she spoke to all the city in her wisdom. And they removed the head of Sheba son of Bichri, and they toss it to Joab. And he trumped with the horn, and they scattered from the city, each man to his tents. And Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king.
2SA 20:23 And Joab was over all the force of Israel. And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites.
2SA 20:24 And Adoram was over the tribute. And Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recording.
2SA 20:25 And Sheva was scribe, And Zadok and Abiathar were priests.
2SA 20:26 And indeed Ira the Jarite was priest to David.
2SA 21:1 And there was a famine in the days of David for three years - year next to year. And David sought the face of the LORD. And the LORD said, Against Saul and against his house is the iniquity, in the death of his blood shed, for which he put to death the Gibeonites.
2SA 21:2 And the king called the Gibeonites, and spoke to them. And the Gibeonites were not of the sons of Israel, for they were of the remnants of the Amorites - but the sons of Israel swore an oath to them. But Saul sought to strike them in his zeal for the sons of Israel and Judah.
2SA 21:3 And David said to the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And by what means shall I atone, and you shall bless the inheritance of the LORD?
2SA 21:4 And the Gibeonites said to him, There is not a problem with us over silver nor gold with Saul, and with his house; and there is not to us a man to put to death from out of all Israel.
2SA 21:5 And he said, What you say even I will do for you. And they said to the king, The man who finished us off entirely, and pursued us, who misled to utterly destroy us, we shall remove him, so that he is not established in any border of Israel.
2SA 21:6 Give to us seven men from his sons, and we will hang them in the sun to the LORD in Gibeah of Saul - chosen of the LORD. And the king said, I will give them.
2SA 21:7 And the king spared for Mephibosheth, son of Jonathan, son of Saul, on account of the oath of the LORD between them - even between David and between Jonathan the son of Saul.
2SA 21:8 And the king took the two sons of Rizpah daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Saul - Armoni and Mephibosheth, and the five sons of Michal daughter of Saul, whom she bore to Adriel son of Barzillai the Meholahite.
2SA 21:9 And he gave them into the hand of the Gibeonites. And they hung them in the sun in the mountain before the LORD. And they fell there the seven together. And they were put to death in days of harvest at first, at the beginning of the barley harvest.
2SA 21:10 And Rizpah daughter of Aiah took sackcloth, and she strew a bed for herself upon the rock from the beginning of the barley harvest until of which time waters dripped upon them from God from heaven. And she did not allow the birds of the heaven to rest upon them by day, nor the wild beasts of the field by night.
2SA 21:11 And it was reported to David all as much as Rizpah daughter of Aiah concubine of Saul did.
2SA 21:12 And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the men of Jabesh Gilead, of the ones stealing them from the square of Beth-shan, of the Philistines hanging them there in the day in which the Philistines struck Saul in Gilboa.
2SA 21:13 And he bore from there the bones of Saul, and the bones of Jonathan his son; and gathered the bones of the ones hanging in the sun.
2SA 21:14 And he entombed the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son, and the bones of the ones being expose to the sun, in the land of Benjamin, in the side of the hill, in the tomb of Kish his father. And they did all as much as the king gave charge. And God heeded the land after these things.
2SA 21:15 And there was still war against the Philistines with Israel. And David went down, and his servants with him, and waged war with the Philistines - and David grew faint.
2SA 21:16 And Ishbi of Nob, who was among the progeny of the one of Rapha, (and the weight of his spear was three hundred shekels scale-weight of brass, and he was being girded with a truncheon,) even considered to strike David.
2SA 21:17 And Abishai son of Zeruiah helped him, and he struck the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David swore by an oath, saying, You shall not come forth still with us into battle, that in no way the lamp of Israel should be extinguished.
2SA 21:18 And it came to pass after these things, war was still with the Philistines in Nob. Then Sibbechai the Hushathite struck the ones assembling of the descendants of the giants.
2SA 21:19 And there was still war with the Philistines in Nob. And Elhanan son of Jaare-oregim the Bethlehemite struck Goliath the Gittite, and the wood of his spear was as the beam of a loom of one weaving.
2SA 21:20 And there was still war in Gath, and there was a man of Madon, and the fingers of his hands, and the toes of his feet were six and six, twenty-four in number; and indeed he was born to the Rapha.
2SA 21:21 And he berated Israel, and Jonathan son of Shimea brother of David struck him.
2SA 21:22 These four were born to descendants of the giants in Gath, to the house of Rapha, and they fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.
2SA 22:1 And David spoke to the LORD the words of this ode in the day which the LORD rescued him from the hand of all his enemies, and from out of the hand of Saul.
2SA 22:2 And he said, The LORD - my rock, and my fortress, and the one rescuing me.
2SA 22:3 My God, my guard - I will be yielded upon him; my defender and horn of my deliverance; my shielder and my refuge; my deliverance from the unjust - you shall deliver me.
2SA 22:4 Praiseworthy - I shall call upon the LORD; and from my enemies I shall be delivered.
2SA 22:5 For conflicts of death compassed me, and the rushing streams of lawlessness made me distraught.
2SA 22:6 Cords of Hades encircled me, and shackles of death anticipated me.
2SA 22:7 In my affliction I shall call upon the LORD, and to my God I will yell. And he heard my voice from out of his temple, and my cry in his ears.
2SA 22:8 And the earth was shaken and disturbed; even the foundations of the heaven were disturbed and thrown into a spasm, for the LORD was enraged with them.
2SA 22:9 Smoke ascended in his wrath, and fire from out of his mouth devoured; coals were kindled by it.
2SA 22:10 And he leaned the heavens, and came down - and dimness was under his feet.
2SA 22:11 And he mounted upon cherubim, and was spread out; and was seen upon the wings of the winds.
2SA 22:12 And he placed darkness for his concealment. Round about him his tent was darkness of waters - thickened in clouds of air.
2SA 22:13 From the brightness before him coals of fire were kindled.
2SA 22:14 The LORD thundered from out of heaven, and the highest gave out his voice.
2SA 22:15 And he sent arrows, and dispersed them; and he flashed lightning, and startled them.
2SA 22:16 And the releases of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the inhabitable world were uncovered at the reproach of the LORD, by the breath of spirit of his rage.
2SA 22:17 He sent from the height, and took me; he drew me out of many waters.
2SA 22:18 He delivered me from the strength of my enemies, from the ones detesting me - for they were strong above me.
2SA 22:19 They anticipated me in a day of my affliction; and the LORD became my stay.
2SA 22:20 And he led me into an enlargement; and rescued me, for he thought to do well by me.
2SA 22:21 And the LORD recompensed unto me according to my righteousness. And according to the cleanliness of my hands he shall make recompense to me.
2SA 22:22 For I guarded the ways of the LORD, and was not impious before my God.
2SA 22:23 For all his judgments were in front of me, and his ordinances did not depart from me.
2SA 22:24 And I will be unblemished to him, and I shall keep guard from my lawlessness.
2SA 22:25 And the LORD shall recompense to me according to my righteousness, and according to the cleanliness of my hands before his eyes.
2SA 22:26 With the sacred you shall be sacred, and with the innocent you shall be innocent,
2SA 22:27 and with the chosen you shall be chosen, and with the crooked you shall be crooked.
2SA 22:28 And the poor people you shall preserve, and the eyes of the proud you shall humble.
2SA 22:29 For you shall light my lamp, O LORD; and the LORD shall shine forth in my darkness.
2SA 22:30 For in you I shall run lightly armed; and by my God I shall leap over a wall.
2SA 22:31 God - unblemished is his way; the saying of the LORD being set on fire; he is a defender to all the ones yielding upon him.
2SA 22:32 For who is God besides the LORD? And who is creator besides our God?
2SA 22:33 God - the one strengthening me is power; and he established my way as unblemished;
2SA 22:34 setting my feet as a stag, and standing me upon the heights;
2SA 22:35 teaching my hands for war, and breaking the bow of brass by my arms.
2SA 22:36 And you gave to me a shield of my deliverance; and obedience of you multiplied me.
2SA 22:37 And you widened my footsteps underneath me; and my legs shook not.
2SA 22:38 I will pursue my enemies, and I will remove them; and I shall not return until of which I shall finish them off.
2SA 22:39 And I will crush them, and they shall not rise up; and they shall fall under my feet.
2SA 22:40 And you shall gird on me power for war. You shall bend the ones rising up against me, underneath me.
2SA 22:41 And you gave my enemies to me - I trampled the back of the necks of ones detesting me.
2SA 22:42 They yelled out, and there was not one delivering; even to the LORD, and he did not take heed of them.
2SA 22:43 And I ground them as dust of the earth; I made them fine as the mud of the streets.
2SA 22:44 And you rescued me from disputes of people; you shall guard me as head of nations. A people whom not knowing, served to me.
2SA 22:45 With a hearing ear it obeyed me; alien sons lied to me;
2SA 22:46 alien sons shall reel - and they shall trip from their confinement.
2SA 22:47 As the LORD lives - for blessed be the one shaping me; and my God shall be raised up high - my deliverer.
2SA 22:48 The LORD is strong - the one giving acts of vengeance to me, and humbling peoples underneath me.
2SA 22:49 And he led me from my enemies; and from the ones rousing up against me you shall raise me up high. You shall rescue me from men of offences.
2SA 22:50 On account of this I will make acknowledgement to you, O LORD, among the nations, and I will strum to your name,
2SA 22:51 O one magnifying the deliverance of his king, and doing mercy to his anointed one, to David and to his seed unto the eon.
2SA 23:1 And these are the last words of David. Trustworthy David, son of Jesse, and a trustworthy man whom God raised up - anointed one of the God of Jacob; and for beauty - the psalm of Israel, saying,
2SA 23:2 Spirit of the LORD spoke by me, and his word was upon my tongue.
2SA 23:3 The God of Israel spoke to me - the guardian of Israel spoke; a just one ruling among men - a chief in fear of God.
2SA 23:4 And as the early morning light, the sun arises in the morning, and it shall not darken; from brightness and from out of rain as is pasturage of the earth.
2SA 23:5 For is not thus my house with God? For he established an eternal covenant with me, to deliver me, prepared at all time, being guarded. For all my deliverance, and all my will is in the LORD; for in no way shall the lawbreaker grow.
2SA 23:6 As a thorn-bush being pushed out are all these, for not a hand shall take them.
2SA 23:7 And a man who shall labor among them, full of an iron weapon and wooden spear, that in fire burning, they shall be burnt in their shame.
2SA 23:8 These are the names of the mighty ones of David. Joshebbassebet the Tachmonite - this one is first of the three. Adino the Eznite - this one unsheathed his broadsword against eight hundred slain at once.
2SA 23:9 And with him is Eleazar son of Dodo, son of his uncle, among the three mighty ones; this one was with David in his berating among the Philistines, and the Philistines gathered together there for war. And the men of Israel ascended before their face.
2SA 23:10 And he rose up and struck the Philistines until of which his hand tired, and his hand was cleaved upon the sword. And the LORD made a great deliverance in that day; and the people returned after him for the despoiling.
2SA 23:11 And after him Shammah son of Agee the Hararite. And the Philistines gathered together in Theria, and there was there a portion of a field full of lentils. And the people fled from the face of the Philistines.
2SA 23:12 And he stood in the midst of the portion, and rescued it, and struck the Philistines; and the LORD executed a great deliverance.
2SA 23:13 And three from the thirty rulers went down, and entered unto David, into the cave of Adullam. And the battle order of the Philistines camped in the valley of Rephaim.
2SA 23:14 And David was then in the citadel, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem.
2SA 23:15 And David desired, and said, Who will give me water to drink from the well in Beth-lehem at the gate?
2SA 23:16 And the three mighty ones tore up the camp of the Philistines, and drew water from the well in Beth-lehem by the gate. And they took of it, and came to David. And he did not want to drink it, and offered it as a libation to the LORD.
2SA 23:17 And he said, Kindness be to me, O LORD, to do this. Shall I drink the blood of the men going with their lives? And he did not want to drink it. These things the three mighty ones did.
2SA 23:18 And Abishai, the brother of Joab, son of Zeruiah, was foremost of the three. And he awakened his spear upon three hundred slain, and to him was a name among the three.
2SA 23:19 Of the three he was honored, and was to them for ruler, but unto the first three he arrived not.
2SA 23:20 And Benaiah son of Jehoiada, son of a mighty man, with great works from Kabzeel. This one struck the two sons of Ariel of Moab. And he went down and struck the lion in the midst of the pit in a snowy day.
2SA 23:21 And he struck the Egyptian man - a remarkable man; and in the hand of the Egyptian was a spear. And he went down to him with a rod, and seized by force the wooden spear from out of the hand of the Egyptian, and killed him with his spear.
2SA 23:22 These things Benaiah son of Jehoiada did, and to him was a name among the three mighty ones.
2SA 23:23 He was over the thirty honorable ones, but to the first three he arrived not. And David ordered him for his reports. And these are the names of the mighty ones of David the king.
2SA 23:24 Asahel brother of Joab among the thirty. Elhanan son of Dodo his uncle in Beth-lehem,
2SA 23:25 Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,
2SA 23:26 Helez the Paltite, Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
2SA 23:27 Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,
2SA 23:28 Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
2SA 23:29 Heleb son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai son Ribai of the hill of Benjamin,
2SA 23:30 Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai from out of Naxali-Gaash,
2SA 23:31 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,
2SA 23:32 Eliahba the Shaalbonite, sons of Jashen, Jonathan,
2SA 23:33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam son of Sharar the Hararite,
2SA 23:34 Eliphelet son of Ahasbai, son of the Maachathite, Eliam son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,
2SA 23:35 Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,
2SA 23:36 Igal son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
2SA 23:37 Zelek the Ammonite, Nahari the Beerothite lifting the equipment of Joab son of Zeruiah,
2SA 23:38 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
2SA 23:39 Uriah the Hittite - in all thirty and seven.
2SA 24:1 And the LORD proceeded in anger to burn in Israel. And he stirred up David against them, saying, Go count Israel and Judah!
2SA 24:2 And the king said to Joab, ruler of the forces with him, Go around indeed all the tribes of Israel and Judah, from Dan and unto Beer-sheba, and number the people, and I shall know the number of the people!
2SA 24:3 And Joab said to the king, And may the LORD your God add to your people, as even these a hundred foldly, and the eyes of my master the king seeing it - but my master the king, why do you want to do this matter?
2SA 24:4 And the word of the king excelled against Joab, and for the rulers of the force. And Joab went forth, and the rulers of the force before the king to number the people of Israel.
2SA 24:5 And they passed over the Jordan, and camped in Aroer at the right of the city in the midst of the ravine of Gad and Eleizer.
2SA 24:6 And they came into Gilead, and into the land Tahtim Hodshi; and they came into Dan, and encircled to Sidon,
2SA 24:7 and they came into Mapsar of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivite, and the Canaanite. And they went out unto the south of Judah into Beer-sheba.
2SA 24:8 And they traveled about in all the land, and came at the end of nine months and twenty days into Jerusalem.
2SA 24:9 And Joab gave the number of the numbering of the people to the king. And there was to Israel eight hundred thousand men of the force unsheathing the broadsword. And men of Judah - five hundred thousand men warriors.
2SA 24:10 And the heart of David struck him after counting the people. And David said to the LORD, I have sinned exceedingly, having done this thing. And now, O LORD, remove indeed the iniquity of your servant, for I was in folly exceedingly!
2SA 24:11 And David rose up in the morning, and the word of the LORD came to Gad the prophet, the one seeing for David, saying,
2SA 24:12 Go and speak to David! saying, Thus says the LORD, Three things I lift unto you - you choose for yourself one of them, and I will execute against you!
2SA 24:13 And Gad went to David, and announced, and said to him, Choose to yourself what is to be to you! Three years of famine in your land, or three months for you to flee before your enemies, and they will be pursuing you, or three days of plague to be in your land. Now then, know and perceive what I shall answer to the one sending me!
2SA 24:14 And David said to Gad, It is an exceedingly narrow choice to me - the three things. I shall fall into the hands of the LORD, for his compassions are exceedingly great, but into the hands of men in no way shall I fall.
2SA 24:15 And David chose for himself plague. And the LORD appointed plague in Israel from morning and unto the hour of dinner. And there died from out of the people from Dan and unto Beer-sheba seventy thousand men.
2SA 24:16 And the angel stretched out his hand to Jerusalem, to utterly destroy it. And the LORD relented over the evil, and said to the angel destroying among the people, Enough now, spare your hand! And the angel of the LORD was by the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
2SA 24:17 And David spoke to the LORD in his beholding the angel striking among the people, and said, Behold, I sinned, and I the shepherd did evil, and these are the sheep, what did they do? Let your hand indeed come against me, and against the house of my father!
2SA 24:18 And Gad came to David in that day, and said to him, Ascend, and set up the altar to the LORD in the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite!
2SA 24:19 And David ascended according to the word of Gad the prophet, in which manner the LORD gave charge to him.
2SA 24:20 And Araunah looked, and he beheld the king, and his servants coming near unto him. And Araunah went forth and did obeisance to the king upon his face upon the ground.
2SA 24:21 And Araunah said, For what reason comes my master the king to his servant? And David said, To acquire from you the threshing-floor, to build an altar to the LORD, so that the devastation upon the people should be constrained.
2SA 24:22 And Araunah said to David, Take it and offer, O my master the king, to the LORD what is good in your eyes! Behold, the oxen are for a whole burnt offering, and the wheels, and the items of the oxen are for wood.
2SA 24:23 The whole amount Araunah gave to the king. And Araunah said to the king, The LORD your God, may he bless you.
2SA 24:24 And the king said to Araunah, Not so, but only by acquiring shall I acquire it from you for a price, for I shall not offer to the LORD my God a whole burnt offering without paying a charge. And David acquired the threshing-floor, and the oxen with fifty silver shekels.
2SA 24:25 And David built there an altar to the LORD, and offered whole burnt offerings, and peace offerings. And the LORD heeded the land, and held up the devastation on top of Israel.
1KI 1:1 And king David was an old man, advanced in days; and they put clothes around him, and he was not warmed.
1KI 1:2 And his servants said to him, Let them seek for our master the king a young virgin, and she shall stand beside the king, and she will be warming him, and she shall recline in his bosom, and our master the king shall be heated.
1KI 1:3 And they sought a goodly young woman from every border of Israel. And they found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king.
1KI 1:4 And the young woman was goodly to the sight, exceedingly, and she was warming the king, and ministered to him; but the king did not know her.
1KI 1:5 And Adonijah the son of Haggith lifted up, saying, I shall reign. And he appointed to himself chariots, and horsemen, and fifty men to run in front of him.
1KI 1:6 And his father did not make a reproach to him at any time, saying, Why is it that have you done thus? And he was good in the appearance - exceedingly. And he was born after Absalom.
1KI 1:7 And his communications were with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest. And they helped following after Adonijah.
1KI 1:8 And Zadok the priest, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the ones being mighty to David were not with Adonijah.
1KI 1:9 And Adonijah sacrificed sheep and calves and lambs by the stone Zoheleth, the one being next to the spring of En-rogel. And he called all his brethren of the sons of the king, and all the men of Judah, the servants of the king.
1KI 1:10 But Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty ones, and Solomon his brother he did not call.
1KI 1:11 And Nathan said to Bath-sheba, mother of Solomon, saying, Did you not hear that Adonijah son of Haggith reigns, and our master David knows not.
1KI 1:12 And now, come, I will advise you with advice, so that you should preserve your life, and the life of Solomon your son.
1KI 1:13 Come, enter unto king David. And you shall say to him, Have you not, O my master, O king, sworn by an oath to your maidservant, saying that, Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? Then why is it that Adonijah reigns?
1KI 1:14 And behold, while you are speaking there with the king, that I shall enter after you, and I will fulfill your words.
1KI 1:15 And Bath-sheba entered to the king in the inner chamber. And the king was an old man, exceedingly. And Abishag the Shunamite was ministering to the king.
1KI 1:16 And Bath-sheba bowed, and did obeisance to the king. And the king said, What is it to you?
1KI 1:17 And she said, O my master, O king, you swore by an oath to the LORD your God to your maidservant, saying that, Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.
1KI 1:18 And now, behold, Adonijah reigns; and you, O my master, O king, do not know.
1KI 1:19 And he sacrificed calves and lambs and sheep in multitude, and called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the ruler of the force - and Solomon your servant he did not call.
1KI 1:20 And you, O my master, O king - the eyes of all Israel are towards you to report to them who shall sit upon the throne of my master the king after him.
1KI 1:21 And it will be in the sleeping of my master the king with his fathers, that I will be myself and Solomon your son as sinners.
1KI 1:22 And behold, while she spoke with the king, that Nathan the prophet entered.
1KI 1:23 And it was announced to the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And he entered in front of the king, and did obeisance to the king upon his face upon the ground.
1KI 1:24 And Nathan said, O my master, O king, have you said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
1KI 1:25 For he went down today and sacrificed calves and lambs and sheep in multitude, and called all the sons of the king, and the rulers of the force, and Abiathar the priest - and behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and said, Let king Adonijah live!
1KI 1:26 And me your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and Solomon your servant he did not call.
1KI 1:27 Is this thing taken place through my master the king, and you did not make known to your servant, who shall sit upon the throne of my master the king after him?
1KI 1:28 And king David answered, and said, Call to me Bath-sheba! And she entered before the king, and stood before him.
1KI 1:29 And the king swore by an oath, and said, As the LORD lives, who ransomed my soul from out of all affliction,
1KI 1:30 that as I swore by an oath to you according to the LORD God of Israel, saying that, Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne instead of me; that thus I will act in this day.
1KI 1:31 And Bath-sheba bowed upon her face upon the earth, and did obeisance to the king, and said, Let my master king David live into the eon!
1KI 1:32 And king David said, Call to me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada! And they entered before the king.
1KI 1:33 And the king said to them, Take with you the servants of your master, and set Solomon my son upon my mule, and lead him unto Gihon!
1KI 1:34 And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there for king over Israel! And trump the horn! And you shall say, Let king Solomon live!
1KI 1:35 And you shall ascend after him. And he shall enter, and he shall sit upon my throne, and he shall reign instead of me. And to him I gave charge to be for leader over Israel and over Judah.
1KI 1:36 And Benaiah son of Jehoiada responded to the king, and said, May it be so - may the LORD God of my master the king confirm it.
1KI 1:37 As the LORD was with my master the king, so may he be with Solomon, even to magnify his throne above the throne of my master king David.
1KI 1:38 And Zadok the priest went down, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethite, and the Pelethite. And they sat Solomon upon the mule of king David, and took him to Gihon.
1KI 1:39 And Zadok the priest took the horn of the oil from out of the tent, and anointed Solomon, and trumped the horn. And all the people said, Let king Solomon live!
1KI 1:40 And all the people ascended after him, and all the people joined in a dance by companies of dancers, and making glad in great gladness. And the earth tore with the sound of them.
1KI 1:41 And Adonijah heard, and all the invited ones with him - and they completed eating. And Joab heard the sound of the horn, and said, What is the sound of the city sounding?
1KI 1:42 While he was speaking, that behold, Jonathan son of Abiathar the priest came in. And Adonijah said, Enter, for you are a man of power, and for good you announce good news!
1KI 1:43 And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, And by all means our master king David established Solomon to reign.
1KI 1:44 And the king sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethite, and the Pelethite. And they sat him upon the mule of the king.
1KI 1:45 And Zadok the priest anointed him, and Nathan the prophet as king at Gihon. And they ascended from there making glad. And the city sounded this sound which you heard.
1KI 1:46 And Solomon is seated upon the throne of the kingdom.
1KI 1:47 2532 kaiAnd also the servants of the king came to bless our master king David, saying, God make good the name of your son Solomon above your name, and magnify his throne above your throne! And the king did obeisance upon his bed.
1KI 1:48 And indeed thus the king said, Blessed is the LORD God of Israel, who gave today from out of my seed one sitting upon my throne, and my eyes see it.
1KI 1:49 And all the ones called by Adonijah were startled and rose up, and each departed unto his way.
1KI 1:50 And Adonijah feared from the face of Solomon, and rose up and went forth, and took hold of of the horns of the altar.
1KI 1:51 And it was announced to Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah fears king Solomon, and he takes hold of the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear by an oath to me today to not put to death his servant by the broadsword.
1KI 1:52 And Solomon said, If he should be a son of power, not in any way should there fall from his head a hair upon the ground. But if evil should be found in him, he shall be put to death.
1KI 1:53 And king Solomon sent, and brought him from on top of the altar. And he entered and did obeisance to king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, Go unto your house!
1KI 2:1 And the days approached for David himself to die. And he gave charge to his son to Solomon, saying,
1KI 2:2 I am going in the way of all the earth, and you shall be strong, and you shall be a man.
1KI 2:3 And you shall guard the watch of the LORD your God, to go in his ways, to guard his commandments, and the ordinances, and the judgments, and his testimonies, as written in the law of Moses, that you should perceive all what you shall do, and everywhere of which ever you should have paid attention there.
1KI 2:4 So that the LORD should establish his word which he spoke concerning me, saying, If your sons should guard their way, to go before me in truth, with their whole heart, and with their whole soul, (saying,) there shall not be lifted away to you a man from the throne of Israel.
1KI 2:5 And now you know what Joab son of Zeruiah did to me, and what he did to the two rulers of the forces of Israel, to Abner son of Ner, and to Amasa son of Jether, and he killed them, and ordered up the blood of war for peace, and put innocent blood on his belt on his loin, and on his sandal on his foot.
1KI 2:6 And you shall do according to your wisdom, and you should not lead down his gray hair in peace into Hades.
1KI 2:7 And to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite you shall have mercy, and they shall be at the eating of your table; for so they drew near to me in my fleeing from the face of your brother Absalom.
1KI 2:8 And behold, with you is Shimei son of Gera, son of the Benjamite from Bahurim. And he cursed me a grievous curse in the day in which I went into Camps. And he went down for meeting me at the Jordan, and I swore by an oath to him by the LORD, saying, I shall not put you to death by the broadsword.
1KI 2:9 And you shall in no way acquit him, for you are a wise man, and you shall know what to do with him, and you shall lead down his gray hair with blood into Hades.
1KI 2:10 And David slept with his fathers, and was entombed in the city of David.
1KI 2:11 And the days which David reigned over Israel were forty years. In Hebron he reigned seven years, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years.
1KI 2:12 And Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father. And his kingdom was prepared exceedingly.
1KI 2:13 And Adonijah son of Haggith entered to Bath-sheba, the mother of Solomon, and did obeisance to her. And she said, Are you entering in peace? And he said, Peace.
1KI 2:14 And he said, My word to you. And she said to him, Speak!
1KI 2:15 And he said to her, You know that to me was the kingdom, and upon me all Israel set their face for king. And the kingdom was turned, and came to my brother - for by the LORD it was to him.
1KI 2:16 And now I ask one request from you - you should not turn away your face. And Bath-sheba said to him, Speak!
1KI 2:17 And he said to her, Speak indeed to Solomon the king! For he will not turn away your face, so that he shall give to me Abishag the Shunammite for wife.
1KI 2:18 And Bath-sheba said, Well; I will speak for you to the king.
1KI 2:19 And Bath-sheba entered to king Solomon, to speak to him concerning Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and he did obeisance to her, and sat upon his throne. And a throne was set for the mother of the king; and she sat on his right.
1KI 2:20 And she said to him, I ask one small request from you - you should not turn away my face. And the king said to her, Ask my mother, for I will not turn from you.
1KI 2:21 And she said, Let there be given indeed Abishag the Shunammite to Adonijah your brother for wife!
1KI 2:22 And king Solomon answered and he said to his mother, And why are you asking Abishag for Adonijah? Then ask for him the kingdom, for this one is my older brother over me; and with him are Abiathar the priest, and with him Joab son of Zeruiah commander-in-chief - his companion.
1KI 2:23 And king Solomon swore by an oath according to the LORD, saying, Thus may God do to me, and thus may he add to it for Adonijah spoke this word against his own life.
1KI 2:24 And now as the LORD lives, who prepared me, and put me upon the throne of David my father, and he made to me a house as the LORD said, that today Adonijah shall be put to death.
1KI 2:25 And king Solomon sent out by the hand of Benaiah son of Jehoiada; and he did away with him, and he died.
1KI 2:26 And to Abiathar the priest the king said, Run unto Anathoth, to your field! For you are a man marked for death. And from this day I will not put you to death, for you lifted the ark of the covenant of the LORD before David my father, and because you were mistreated in all ways which my father was mistreated.
1KI 2:27 And Solomon cast out Abiathar so that he would not be for priest to the LORD; to fulfill the saying of the LORD, which he said concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
1KI 2:28 And the report came unto Joab son of Zeruiah; for Joab was leaning after Adonijah, and did not turn aside after Solomon. And Joab fled to the tent of the LORD, and held the horns of the altar.
1KI 2:29 And it was reported to Solomon, saying that, Joab has fled into the tent of the LORD; and behold, he holds the horns of the altar. And Solomon sent Benaiah son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, and do away with him!
1KI 2:30 And Benaiah came to Joab in the tent of the LORD, and said to him, Thus says the king, Come forth! And Joab said, I do not go forth, for here I shall die. And Benaiah returned and said to the king, saying, Thus Joab has spoken, and thus he answered me.
1KI 2:31 And the king said to him, Go, and do to him as he has said, and do away with him! And you shall bury him, and lift away today the blood which Joab poured out freely from me, and from the house of my father;
1KI 2:32 and the LORD returned the blood of his iniquity onto his head, inasmuch as he met the two just and good men above him, and killed them by the broadsword; and my father David did not know about Abner son of Ner, commander-in-chief of Israel, and Amasa son of Jether, commander-in-chief of Judah.
1KI 2:33 And let their blood return upon his head, and upon the head of his seed unto the eon! And to David, and to his seed, and to his house, and to his throne, may there be peace by the LORD into the eon.
1KI 2:34 And Benaiah son of Jehoiada ascended, and met him, and killed him. And they entombed him in his house in the wilderness.
1KI 2:35 And the king appointed Benaiah son of Jehoiada instead of him over the military. And the king appointed Zadok the priest, as foremost priest instead of Abiathar.
1KI 2:36 And sending, the king called Shimei, and said to him, Build for yourself a house in Jerusalem, and settle there, and do not go forth from there - not at all!
1KI 2:37 And it will be in the day that you exit, and pass over the rushing stream Kidron, in knowing, know that to death you shall die - your blood will be upon your head.
1KI 2:38 And Shimei said to the king, The thing is good which you have spoken, O my master, O king, thus shall your servant do. And Shimei settled in Jerusalem three years.
1KI 2:39 And it came to pass after three years, that two servants of Shimei ran away to Achish son of Maachah king of Gath. And they reported to Shimei, saying, Behold, your servants are in Gath.
1KI 2:40 And Shimei rose up, and saddled his donkey, and went unto Gath to Achish to seek after his servants. And Shimei went, and led his servants from Gath.
1KI 2:41 And it was reported to Solomon, saying that, Shimei went from out of Jerusalem unto Gath, and returned.
1KI 2:42 And the king sent and called Shimei, and said to him, Did I not bind you by an oath according to the LORD, and I attested to you, saying, In which ever day you should go forth from out of Jerusalem, and you should go to the right or left, in knowing, know that to death you shall die? And you said to me, The word which you heard was good.
1KI 2:43 And why have you not guarded the oath of the LORD, and the commandment which I gave charge to you?
1KI 2:44 And the king said to Shimei, You know all your evil which your heart knows, which you did to David my father, and the LORD recompensed your evil on your head.
1KI 2:45 And king Solomon is being blessed, and the throne of David will be prepared before the LORD into the eon.
1KI 2:46 And king Solomon gave charge to Benaiah son of Jehoiada. And he came forth, and did away with him, and he died.
1KI 3:1 And the kingdom solidified in the hand of Solomon. And Solomon contracted a marriage with Pharaoh king of Egypt. And he took the daughter of Pharaoh, and brought her into the city of David, until he completed building his house, and the house of the LORD at first, and the wall of Jerusalem round about.
1KI 3:2 Except the people were burning incense upon the high places, for a house was not built to the name of the LORD until the present.
1KI 3:3 And Solomon loved the LORD, to go in the orders of David his father; only he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
1KI 3:4 And he rose up and went into Gibeon to sacrifice there; for it was highest and great. Solomon offered a thousand whole burnt offerings upon the altar in Gibeon.
1KI 3:5 And the LORD appeared to Solomon in sleep at night. And the LORD said to Solomon, Ask any request for yourself!
1KI 3:6 And Solomon said, You did great mercy with your servant David my father, as he went before you in truth, and in righteousness, and in straightness of heart with you. And you guarded him by this great mercy, to grant to him a son sitting upon his throne as this day.
1KI 3:7 And now, O LORD, my God, you gave reign to your servant in place of David my father. And I am a small boy; and I know not my entering and my exiting.
1KI 3:8 And your servant is in the midst of your people which you chose, a populous people which shall not be counted.
1KI 3:9 And you shall give to your servant a heart to hear and to litigate your people in righteousness, to perceive between good and bad. For who shall be able to judge this weighty thing for your people?
1KI 3:10 And the word was pleasing before the LORD, that Solomon asked this thing.
1KI 3:11 And the LORD said to him, Because you asked this thing from me, and you did not ask many days for yourself, and you did not ask for riches, nor asked for the lives of your enemies; but you asked for yourself understanding to hear judgment;
1KI 3:12 behold, I have done according to your word. Behold, I give to you an intelligent and wise heart - there has not been one as you before you, and after you there shall not rise up one likened to you.
1KI 3:13 And indeed, what you have not asked I have given to you, even riches and glory - as there is not a man likened to you among the kings.
1KI 3:14 And if you should have gone in my way, to guard my commandments, and my orders, as David your father went, then I will prolong your days.
1KI 3:15 And Solomon woke up; and he knew the dream. And he rose up and came unto Jerusalem, and stood in front of the altar in front of the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and led up whole burnt offerings, and made peace offerings, and made a banquet to all his servants.
1KI 3:16 Then there appeared two women harlots unto the king, and they stood before him.
1KI 3:17 And the one woman said, Hear me, O my master. I and this woman live in one house; and we gave birth in the house.
1KI 3:18 And it came to pass in the third day of my giving birth, this woman also gave birth. And we were in the same place, and there was no one with us, only both of us in the house.
1KI 3:19 And the son of this woman died in the night, as she rested upon it.
1KI 3:20 And she rose up in the middle of the night; and took my son from my embrace, while your maidservant went to sleep, and rested it in her bosom; and the son having died she rested in my bosom.
1KI 3:21 And I rose up in the morning to nurse my son, and that one was the one having died. And behold, I contemplated him in the morning; and behold, he was not my son whom I gave birth.
1KI 3:22 And the other woman said, Not so, for my son is the one living, and your son is the one having died. And she said, Not so, your son is the one having died, and my son is the one living. And they spoke before the king.
1KI 3:23 And the king said to them, You here say, This my son is the one living, and this one's son is the one having died. And you there say, Not so, but my son is the one living, and this one's son is the one having died.
1KI 3:24 And the king said, Take for me a sword! And they brought the sword before the king.
1KI 3:25 And the king said, Divide the living child into two, and give the one half of him to this one, and the other half of him to this other one!
1KI 3:26 And the woman answered of whom was the mother of the living son, and she said to the king, for her womb was disturbed over her son, and she said, Hear me, O master, give to her the child, and to death let it not be put to death! And she the other said, Neither to me nor to her let it be, divide it!
1KI 3:27 And the king responded and said, Give the living child to the one having said, Give it to her! And unto death you should not put it to death - she is his mother.
1KI 3:28 And all Israel heard this ordinance which the king passed judgment, and they feared from the presence of the king, for they knew that intellect of God was in him to do justice.
1KI 4:1 And king Solomon was reigning over Israel.
1KI 4:2 And these are the rulers who were with him - Azariah son of Zadok the priest;
1KI 4:3 Elihoreph and Ahiah son of Shisha were scribes; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder;
1KI 4:4 and Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the force; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
1KI 4:5 and Azariah son of Nathan was over the ones being placed in charge; and Zabud son of Nathan was companion of the king;
1KI 4:6 and Ahishar was manager; and Adoniram son of Abda was over the tribute.
1KI 4:7 And to Solomon were twelve being placed over all Israel, to conduct matters for the king and to his house - a month in the year it happened for one to conduct matters.
1KI 4:8 And these are their names - Ben-Hur, in mount Ephraim;
1KI 4:9 the son of Dekar, in Makaz; and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon unto Beth-hanan;
1KI 4:10 the son of Hesed, in Aruboth - of him was Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher;
1KI 4:11 All Nephador was to the son of Abinadab - Taphath daughter of Solomon was to him for wife;
1KI 4:12 Baana son of Ahilud to whom was Taanach, and Magiddo, and all the house of Shean by Zartanah underneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean unto Abel-meholah, unto Maeber Jokneam;
1KI 4:13 the son of Geber, in Ramoth Gilead - of this one were cities of Jair son of Manasseh in Gilead; to this one was a piece of measured out land - Argob, in Bashan - sixty cities, great and walled and bars of brass;
1KI 4:14 Ahinadab son of Iddo had Mahanaim;
1KI 4:15 Ahimaaz was in Naphtali; and he took Basmath daughter of Solomon for a wife;
1KI 4:16 Baanah son of Hushai was in Asher and in Aloth;
1KI 4:17 Jehoshaphat son of Paruah was in Issachar;
1KI 4:18 Shimei son of Elah was in Benjamin;
1KI 4:19 Geber son of Uri was in the land of Gilead of Sihon of the king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan; and Naseb in the land of Judah was one.
1KI 4:20 Judah and Israel were exceedingly many, as the sand upon the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and rejoicing.
1KI 4:21 And Solomon was ruler in all the kingdoms from the river of the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt. And they were bringing gifts, and served to Solomon all the days of his life.
1KI 4:22 And these were the necessary things to Solomon in one day - thirty cors of fine flour, and sixty cors of flour,
1KI 4:23 ten choice calves, and twenty grazing oxen, and a hundred sheep, outside of stags and does, and chosen and feeding hens.
1KI 4:24 For he was ruler in all the other side of the river, from Tiphsah unto Azzah, in all the kingdoms on the other side of the river. And there was to him peace from all of the parts round about.
1KI 4:25 And Judah and Israel dwelt being yielded each in his grapevine and under his fig-tree, from Dan and unto Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.
1KI 4:26 And there was to Solomon forty thousand horses for chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
1KI 4:27 And the ones being placed in charge conducted thus to king Solomon, and for all the declarations upon the table of the king; each one in charge of his month - they altered not a word.
1KI 4:28 And the barley and the straw for the horses and the chariots they took unto the place of which ever the king might be, each according to his arrangement.
1KI 4:29 And the LORD gave intellect to Solomon and exceedingly great wisdom, and an increase in heart, as the sand by the sea.
1KI 4:30 And Solomon multiplied exceedingly over the intellect of all the ancient men, and above all the intelligent ones of Egypt.
1KI 4:31 And he discerned above all the men. And he discerned above Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, sons of Mahol. And his name became famous among all the nations round about.
1KI 4:32 And he spoke three thousand parables. And his odes were five thousand.
1KI 4:33 And he spoke concerning the timbers from the cedars in Lebanon, and unto the hyssop coming forth from the wall. And he spoke concerning the cattle, and concerning the winged creatures, and concerning the reptiles, and concerning the fishes.
1KI 4:34 And all the peoples came to him to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And he took gifts from all the kings of the earth, as many as heard his wisdom.
1KI 5:1 And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon; for he heard that they anointed him for king in place of David his father - for Hiram was loving David all the days.
1KI 5:2 And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying,
1KI 5:3 You knew my father David, that he was not able to build a house to the name of the LORD my God because of facing the wars that were encircling him, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet.
1KI 5:4 And now the LORD my God gave rest to me round about - there is not a plotter, and there is not a wicked meeting.
1KI 5:5 And behold, I speak concerning building a house to the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD spoke to David my father, saying, Your son, whom I shall put instead of you upon your throne, this one shall build the house to my name.
1KI 5:6 And now give charge and let men fell timbers for me from Lebanon! And behold, my servants shall be with your servants. And the wage of your servants I will give to you according to all as much as you should say. For you know that there is not among us one knowing to fell timbers as the Sidonians.
1KI 5:7 And it came to pass, as Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced exceedingly, and said, Blessed be the LORD today, who gives to David an intelligent son over this populous people.
1KI 5:8 And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, I have heard concerning all which you have sent to me. I will do all your will for timbers of cedars and of pines.
1KI 5:9 My servants shall lead them from out of Lebanon into the sea. And I will put them on barges unto the place of which ever you should send for me, and will shake them off there, and you shall lift them. And you shall produce for my want, to give breads to my house.
1KI 5:10 And Hiram was giving to Solomon cedars and pines according to all his want.
1KI 5:11 And Solomon gave to Hiram twenty thousand cors of wheat, and food to his house, and twenty baths of olive oil being pounded - according to this Solomon gave to Hiram yearly.
1KI 5:12 And the LORD gave to Solomon wisdom as he said to him. And there was peace between Hiram and between Solomon; and they ordained a covenant between them selves.
1KI 5:13 And king Solomon brought tribute from all Israel; and the tribute was thirty thousand men.
1KI 5:14 And he sent them to Lebanon - ten thousand being changed every month. They were in Lebanon one month, and two months at their house. And Adoniram was over the tribute.
1KI 5:15 And were to Solomon seventy thousand lifting a load, and eighty thousand quarriers in the mountain;
1KI 5:16 separate from the rulers being placed over the works of Solomon - three thousand and three hundred supervisors over the people of the ones doing the works.
1KI 5:17 And the king gave charge, and they lifted great valuable stones for the foundation of the house, and unhewn stones.
1KI 5:18 And the servants of Solomon hewed, and the servants of Hiram, and the Giblites. And they prepared the stones and the timbers to build the house.
1KI 6:1 And it came to pass in the eightieth and four hundredth year of the exodus of the sons of Israel from out of Egypt, in the fourth year, in the second month in the reigning of king Solomon over Israel, that he built the house to the LORD.
1KI 6:2 And the house which king Solomon built to the LORD - sixty cubits its length, and twenty cubits its width, and thirty cubits its height.
1KI 6:3 And the columned porch in front of the temple - twenty cubits was the length of it upon the width of the house. And ten in cubit was its width according to the face of the house.
1KI 6:4 And he made for the house a window leaning - hidden.
1KI 6:5 And he put upon the wall of the house a ridge round about the temple - also to the dabir. And he made the sides round about.
1KI 6:6 The side underneath - five cubits was the width of it. And the middle - six cubits was the width. And the third - seven cubits was the width of it. For he made a space to the house round about from outside the house, so as to not take hold of the walls of the house.
1KI 6:7 And the house in the constructing it was built in whole chiseled stones. And a hammer, and hewing axe, and every item of iron, was not heard in the constructing it.
1KI 6:8 And the vestibule of the side beneath was by the protrusion of the house on the right side. And there was a winding ascent into the middle story, and from the middle unto the third story.
1KI 6:9 And he constructed the house, and completed it; and vaulted the house with cedars.
1KI 6:10 And he built the chambers through the entire house, five cubits was the height of it. And he held it together by bonding it together with timbers of cedars.
1KI 6:11 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Solomon, saying,
1KI 6:12 This house which you construct, if you travel by my orders, and you should observe my judgments, and should keep all my commandments, to pace in them; I will establish my word with you which I spoke to David your father.
1KI 6:13 And I will encamp in the midst of the sons of Israel, and I will not abandon my people Israel.
1KI 6:14 And Solomon built the house, and finished it.
1KI 6:15 And he built the walls of the house from inside with wood of cedars, from the floors of the house, and unto the walls, and unto the beams. And he vaulted it holding it together with timbers from inside. And he compassed the inside of the house with ribs of pines.
1KI 6:16 And he built twenty cubits from the top of the house of the sides of cedars from floor unto the beams. And he made it inside of the dabir in the holy of holies.
1KI 6:17 And the temple itself was forty cubits in front of the dabir.
1KI 6:18 And cedar covered the house inside. And there was carved gourds, and leaves opened and spread out - all cedar; and stone did not appear.
1KI 6:19 And the dabir was in the midst of the house within, to give place there for the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
1KI 6:20 Twenty cubits was the length, and twenty cubits the width, and twenty cubits the height of it. And he compassed it with gold being closed up.
1KI 6:21 And he made an altar according to the front of the dabir; and he compassed it in gold.
1KI 6:22 And the entire house was compassed in gold, unto completion of all the house.
1KI 6:23 And he made in the dabir two cherubim of wood of cypresses - ten cubits was the greatness being measured by a rule,
1KI 6:24 and five cubits was the wing of the one cherub, and the second was five cubits of its wing. Ten in a cubit from one part of its wing to the other part of its wing.
1KI 6:25 Thus to the second cherub with one measure and one completion with both.
1KI 6:26 And the height of the one cherub was ten in a cubit. So also the second cherub.
1KI 6:27 And he stationed both the cherubim in the midst of the innermost house. And their wings were open and spread out, and the one wing touched the wall of the house, and the wing of the second cherub touched the second wall; and their wings were in the midst of the house, touching wing to wing.
1KI 6:28 And he compassed the cherubim with gold.
1KI 6:29 And all the walls of the house round about he depicted sculptures with a stylus - cherubim, and palms and leaves opened and spread out to the inner and to the outer.
1KI 6:30 And the floor of the house he compassed with gold - of the innermost and the outermost.
1KI 6:31 And to the doorway of the dabir he made doors of wood of juniper, and five-fold doorways.
1KI 6:32 And two doors were of woods of pines. And sculptures upon them being sculpted of cherubim, and palms. And panels were opening and spreading out. And he compassed them with gold; and the gold came down upon the cherubim and over the palms.
1KI 6:33 And thus he made to the vestibule of the temple doorposts of woods of juniper, with fourfold stoas.
1KI 6:34 And in both the doors woods of pines were used - the one door was bi- fold, and their hinges were there; and the second door was bi- fold - turning;
1KI 6:35 being sculpted with cherubim and palms; and panels opening and spreading out, and being compassed with gold being led upon the impression.
1KI 6:36 And he built the inside courtyard - three rows of hewn stones, and a row being manufactured of cedar round about.
1KI 6:37 In the fourth year the house of the LORD was laid a foundation, in the month Zif.
1KI 6:38 And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, this is the eighth month, the house was completed according to all his words, and according to all his responsibilities. And he built it in seven years.
1KI 7:1 And Solomon constructed his own house for thirteen years. And he wholly completed his house.
1KI 7:2 And he constructed the house of the forest of Lebanon - a hundred cubits was its length, and fifty cubits its width, and thirty cubits its height upon four rows of columns of cedars, and protrusions of cedars for the columns.
1KI 7:3 And he decorated with fretwork in cedar the house above upon the sides of the columns. And the number of the columns was forty and five - ten and five in one row.
1KI 7:4 And three ridges, with place upon place thrice.
1KI 7:5 And all the doorways and the places were four-cornered being arched over, from the doorway upon the door thrice.
1KI 7:6 And the columned porch of the columns was fifty cubits in length, and thirty cubits in width, being joined together by a columned porch in front of them. And columns and thick beams were at the front to them.
1KI 7:7 And the columned porch of the throne of which he judged there, was a columned porch for the judgment seat. And it was decorated with fretwork in cedars from floor unto upper room.
1KI 7:8 And his house in which he shall sit there - one courtyard is expanding to these according to this work. And Solomon built a house, (for the daughter of Pharaoh whom Solomon took,) according to this columned porch.
1KI 7:9 These are all from out of valuable stones being chiseled, at an interval inside from the foundation unto the moldings, and outside to the great courtyard -
1KI 7:10 the laying a foundation with great valuable stones; stones ten cubits, and eight cubits in size.
1KI 7:11 And on top were valuable stones according to the same measure - hewn stones and cedars,
1KI 7:12 of the great courtyard round about with three rows of hewn stones, and a row being chiseled of cedar, even to the inner courtyard of the house of the LORD, and to the columned porch of the house.
1KI 7:13 And king Solomon sent and took Hiram from out of Tyre,
1KI 7:14 a son of a widow woman, and this one was from the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a Tyrian man, a fabricator of brass, and being accomplished of the wisdom of the craft, and of understanding, and of full knowledge to do all the work in brass. And he was brought to king Solomon, and he did every work.
1KI 7:15 And he cast in a furnace the two columns for the columned porch of the house - eighteen cubits was the height of the column, and the perimeter had a two and ten cubits measuring cord encircling it. And so was the second column.
1KI 7:16 And he made two capitals to put upon the heads of the molten columns of brass - five cubits was the height of the one capital, and five cubits was the height of the second capital.
1KI 7:17 And he made latticed works to cover the capitals of the columns; seven to the capital - to the one; and seven to the capital - to the second.
1KI 7:18 And a hanging work - two rows of pomegranates of brass being made of lattice works, a hanging work, row upon row. And thus he did for the second capital.
1KI 7:19 2532 kaiAnd capitals upon the heads of the columns, a work of lily for the columned porch - four cubits; and a ridge upon both of the columns, and on top of the sides of the capital.
1KI 7:20 And the pomegranates - two hundred in rows upon the second capital.
1KI 7:21 And he set up the columns of the columned porch of the temple. And he set up the right column, and called the name of it - Jachin. And he set up the left column, and called the name of it - Boaz.
1KI 7:22 And upon the tops of the columns was a work of lily. And the work of the columns was finished.
1KI 7:23 And he made the cast sea - ten by a cubit from its rim unto its rim - globular; round about the same. Five by a cubit was its height. And a measuring line meeting together of thirty cubits encircled it.
1KI 7:24 And supports from beneath its rim round about encircled it - ten by a cubit raising up the sea round about; two rows of supports cast in the foundry furnace of them.
1KI 7:25 And twelve oxen were underneath the sea - three looking to the north, and three looking to the west, and three looking to the south, and three looking to the east. And the sea was upon them on top.
1KI 7:26 And all the oxen posteriors were to the inside. And the thickness of it was a palm, and the rim of it was as a rim work of a cup with a lily bud - It had a capacity of two thousand coos.
1KI 7:27 And he made ten bases of brass - four cubits was the length of the one base, and four cubits the width of it, and three cubits was the height of it.
1KI 7:28 And this is the work of the base joining it, and joining between the protruding parts.
1KI 7:29 And upon the joineries, between the protruding parts, were lions, and oxen, and cherubim. And upon the protruding parts so also from above and from below the lions and the oxen were places of a descending work.
1KI 7:30 And four wheels of brass were to the one base; and the fasteningsaxles. of brass and its four parts of their protrusion supports were from beneath the bathing tubs; and protrusion supports for a man to pour from the other side were situated before. And the mouth of it, within the top and upward, was one cubit.
1KI 7:31 And the mouth of it was globular, a thing made thus - a cubit and half a cubit. And upon its mouth were carvings. And their small pillarsaxle trees. were four-cornered, not globular.
1KI 7:32 And four wheels were underneath the small pillars. And handsaxles. were in the wheels in the base. And the height of the one wheel was a cubit and a half.
1KI 7:33 And the work of the wheels was as the work of chariot wheels. And their hands and their backs and their matters were all castedtheir axle-trees, rims and spokes..
1KI 7:34 And four protrusion supports were upon the four corners of the one base. From out of the base were its shoulders.
1KI 7:35 And upon the head of the base - a half a cubit was its globular size round about upon the head of the base. And the hands of it and its joineries were of it; and it opened upon the beginnings of its hands.
1KI 7:36 And its joinery was cherubim, and lions, and standing palms, each being next to the other in front of it inside, round about.
1KI 7:37 According to this he made ten bases, with one order and one measure to all.
1KI 7:38 And he made ten pots of brass, having the capacity of forty coos to the one pot, measuring four cubits. And one pot was upon the one base for the ten bases.
1KI 7:39 And he placed the ten bases - five on the protrusion support of the house at the right sides, and five on the protrusion support of the house at the left sides; and the sea on the protrusion support of the house was at the right sides, according to the east from the side of the south.
1KI 7:40 And Hiram made the kettles, and the tongs, and the bowls. And Hiram completed making all the works which he made for king Solomon in the house of the LORD -
1KI 7:41 two columns and the twisted works of the carvings being upon the heads of the two columns; and two latticed works to cover both the twisted carvings being upon the columns;
1KI 7:42 and the pomegranates - four hundred, to both the latticed works; two rows of pomegranates to the one latticed work, to cover all over both the twisted works being upon both of the columns;
1KI 7:43 and the ten bases, and the ten pots upon the bases;
1KI 7:44 and the one sea, and the twelve oxen underneath the sea;
1KI 7:45 and the kettles, and the tongs, and the bowls. And all the items which Hiram made for king Solomon for the house of the LORD were entirely of brass.
1KI 7:46 In the adjacent area of the Jordan the king cast them in the thick earth between Succoth and between Zarthan.
1KI 7:47 And Solomon the king put unweighed all the items, because of the exceeding multitude - there was not a weight of the brass.
1KI 7:48 And Solomon made all the items in the house of the LORD - the golden altar, and the table upon which are the breads of the golden place setting,
1KI 7:49 and the five lamp-stands at the right sides, and five at the left sides, in front of the dabir - being completely made golden, and the oil lamp bowls, and the lamps, and the golden oil funnels,
1KI 7:50 and the thresholds, and the nails, and the bowls, and the saucers, and the golden incense pans joined, and the doorways of the doors of the innermost house, of the holy of holies, and the doors of the house of the temple were of gold.
1KI 7:51 And all the work which Solomon did was fulfilled for the house of the LORD. And Solomon carried in the holy things of David his father - the silver and the gold; and the equipment he put into the treasury of the house of the LORD.
1KI 8:1 Then king Solomon held an assembly of all the elders of Israel, and all rulers of the tribes - leaders of the families of the sons of Israel, for king Solomon in Jerusalem to bear the ark of the covenant of the LORD from out of the city of David - this is Zion;
1KI 8:2 in the month Athanim during its holiday - this is the seventh month. And all the elders of Israel came.
1KI 8:3 And the priests lifted the ark,
1KI 8:4 and the tent of the testimony, and all the holy items for the tent of the testimony.
1KI 8:5 And the king, and all the people of Israel, were before the ark sacrificing oxen and sheep - innumerable.
1KI 8:6 And the priests carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD unto its place - into the dabir of the house, into the holy of holies, under the wings of the cherubim.
1KI 8:7 For the cherubim were being opened and spread out in the wings over the place of the ark. And the cherubim covered all over the ark, and over its holy things from above.
1KI 8:8 And the sanctified staves projected, and the heads of the sanctified staves looked out from the holies unto the front of the dabir. And they were not seen outside, and they were there until this day.
1KI 8:9 There was not anything in the ark except the two tablets of stone - tablets of the covenant, which Moses put there in Horeb, which the LORD ordained with the sons of Israel in their going forth from out of the land of Egypt.
1KI 8:10 And it happened as the priests came forth from out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house.
1KI 8:11 And the priests were not able to stand to officiate in front of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD.
1KI 8:12 Then Solomon said, The LORD spoke of encamping in dimness.
1KI 8:13 And I built a house to your name, holy to you, and readied, and to your form, for you to encamp in it into the eons.
1KI 8:14 And the king turned his face, and blessed all Israel. And all the assembly of Israel stood.
1KI 8:15 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who spoke by his mouth concerning David my father, and by his hands fulfilled, saying,
1KI 8:16 From which day I led out my people Israel from Egypt, I have not chosen a city in one chiefdom of Israel to build a house for my name to be there; but I chose in David to be the one leading over my people Israel.
1KI 8:17 And it was upon the heart of David my father to build a house to the name of the LORD God of Israel.
1KI 8:18 And the LORD said to David my father, That it was upon your heart to construct a house to my name you did well, for it was upon your heart.
1KI 8:19 Except you shall not build the house; but your son coming forth from out of your sides, this one shall build the house to my name.
1KI 8:20 And the LORD raised up his word which he spoke, and I am risen up instead of David my father, and I sat down upon the throne of Israel, as the LORD spoke. And I built the house to the name of the LORD God of Israel.
1KI 8:21 And I established there a place for the ark, in which is there the covenant of the LORD, which the LORD ordained with our fathers, in his leading them from out of the land of Egypt.
1KI 8:22 And Solomon stood in front of the altar of the LORD before all the assembly of Israel, and opened and spread out his hands into the heaven.
1KI 8:23 And he said, O LORD God of Israel, there is not a God as you, in the heaven upward, and upon the earth below, guarding covenant and mercy with your servant going before you with his entire heart;
1KI 8:24 which you kept with your servant David, my father, which you have spoken by your mouth; and by your hands you fulfilled, as even this day.
1KI 8:25 And now, O LORD God of Israel, keep with your servant David my father that which you spoke to him! saying, There shall not be lifted away from you a man from my face sitting upon the throne of Israel; except that your sons shall guard their ways, to go before me as you went before me.
1KI 8:26 And now, O LORD God of Israel, trustworthy indeed is your word to David my father.
1KI 8:27 But shall truly God dwell with men upon the earth? Shall the heaven and the heavens of the heavens not be sufficient for you? How then also this house which I built to your name?
1KI 8:28 And should you look also upon my prayer, upon my supplication, O LORD God of Israel, to hear the supplication and the prayer, which your servant prays before you, to you today;
1KI 8:29 for your eyes to be open towards this house day and night, to this place which you said, My name shall be there, to listen to the prayer which your servant prays in this place;
1KI 8:30 then you shall hearken to the supplication of your servant, and of your people Israel, as many things as they should pray in this place; and you should hear in the place of your dwelling in heaven, and you shall act, and shall be propitious,
1KI 8:31 to as many things as a man should sin against his neighbor. And if he should take upon himself an oath to curse him, and he should come and should declare openly in front of your altar in this house;
1KI 8:32 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, and shall act, and shall judge your people Israel, to act as lawless with the lawless - to impute his way upon his head; and to do justice with the just one - to impute to him according to his righteousness.
1KI 8:33 And in the failing of your people Israel before their enemies - because they shall sin against you, and shall return and shall acknowledge your name, and shall pray, and shall beseech in this house;
1KI 8:34 then you shall hearken from the heaven, and shall be propitious to the sins of your people Israel, and shall turn towards them in the land which you gave to their fathers.
1KI 8:35 And in the holding together the heaven, and there not being rain, because they shall sin against you; and if they shall pray in this place, and shall acknowledge your name, and shall turn from their sins, whenever you should humble them;
1KI 8:36 then you shall listen from the heaven, and you shall be propitious to the sins of your servant, and of your people Israel. For you shall manifest to them the good way to go by it. And you shall give rain upon your land, which you gave to your people for an inheritance.
1KI 8:37 And if famine should happen, if plague should happen, when there will be a grasshopper blasting, if blight should happen, and if his enemy should afflict him in one of their cities, every event, every misery,
1KI 8:38 every prayer, every supplication, if it should happen to any man, whenever each one should know the infection of his heart, and should open and spread out his hands in this house,
1KI 8:39 then you shall hearken from out of the heaven, from out of your prepared home, and you shall be propitious, and you shall act, and you shall impute to a man according to all his ways, (as even you should know his heart; for you alone know the heart of all of the sons of men;)
1KI 8:40 so that they should fear you all the days which they live upon the earth which you gave to our fathers,
1KI 8:41 and to the alien who is not from your people - this Israel, that shall come from a land far off on account of your name;
1KI 8:42 (for they shall hear your great name, and your strong hand, and your high arm,) and shall come and shall pray to this place;
1KI 8:43 then you shall listen from the heaven, from out of your prepared home, and you shall act according to all what the alien should call upon you, so that all the peoples of the land should know your name, so that they should fear you, as your people Israel, and should know that your name has been called upon in this house which I built.
1KI 8:44 And if your people should go forth to war against their enemies, in the way which you shall send them, and they shall pray by the name of the LORD by way of the city of which you chose in it, and the house which I built to your name;
1KI 8:45 then you shall listen from out of the heaven to their supplication, and their prayer, and shall do justice to them.
1KI 8:46 For they shall sin against you, (for there is not a man who shall not sin,) and if you shall strike upon them, and should deliver them up before their enemies, and the ones taking captive should take them captive into a land far or near;
1KI 8:47 and they shall turn their hearts in the land which they were led away there, and they shall turn, and shall beseech you in the land of their displacement, saying, We sinned, we acted lawlessly, we did wrong;
1KI 8:48 and they shall turn to you with their entire heart, and with their entire soul in the land of their enemies who led them away, and should pray to you by way of their land, which you gave to their fathers, and of the city which you chose, and of the house of which I constructed to your name;
1KI 8:49 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, from your prepared home, of their prayer and their supplication, and you shall do the just thing for them,
1KI 8:50 and you shall be propitious to their iniquities which they sinned against you, and according to all their disregardings which ever they disregarded; and you shall appoint them for compassions before the ones capturing them, and they shall pity them.
1KI 8:51 For they are your people, and your inheritance, whom you led out from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the midst of the foundry furnace of iron.
1KI 8:52 And let your eyes and your ears be open to the supplication of your servant, and to the supplication of your people Israel, to hearken to them in all what ever they should call upon you!
1KI 8:53 For you drew them apart unto yourself for an inheritance from out of all the peoples of the earth, as you spoke by the hand of your servant Moses, in your leading out our fathers from the land of Egypt, O Lord, O LORD.
1KI 8:54 And it came to pass as Solomon completed praying to the LORD all the prayer, and this supplication, that he rose up from in front of the altar of the LORD, having kneeled upon his knees, and his hands being opened and spread out unto the heaven,
1KI 8:55 and stood, and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a great voice, saying,
1KI 8:56 Blessed be the LORD who gave today rest to his people Israel, according to all as many things as he spoke. Not one word perished in all of his good words which he spoke by the hand of Moses his servant.
1KI 8:57 May the LORD our God be with us as he was with our fathers. May he not abandon us, nor turn from us -
1KI 8:58 to incline our heart to himself, to go in all his ways, and to guard all his commandments, and his orders, and his judgments, which he gave charge to our fathers.
1KI 8:59 And let these words be which I have beseeched before the LORD our God today, approaching to the LORD our God day and night, to do the right action for your servant, and the right action for your people Israel - a days matter in its day!
1KI 8:60 So that all the peoples of the earth should know that the LORD God - he is God, and is there not another.
1KI 8:61 And let our hearts be perfect to the LORD our God, to go sacredly by his orders, and to keep his commandments as this day!
1KI 8:62 And the king, and all the sons of Israel sacrificed a sacrifice before the LORD.
1KI 8:63 And king Solomon sacrificed the sacrifices of the peace offerings, which he sacrificed to the LORD - two and twenty thousand oxen, and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. And the king dedicated the house of the LORD, and with all the sons of Israel.
1KI 8:64 In that day the king sanctified the middle of the courtyard in front of the house of the LORD; for he prepared there the whole burnt offering, and the sacrifice offerings, and the fats of the peace offerings, because the altar of brass before the LORD was small so as to not be able to receive the whole burnt offering, and the gift offering, and the sacrifices of the peace offerings.
1KI 8:65 And Solomon observed the holiday feast in that day, and Israel with him - a great assembly, from the entering of Hamath unto the river of Egypt, before the LORD our God, seven days and seven days - four and ten days.
1KI 8:66 And on the eighth day he sent out the people; and they blessed the king, and each went forth unto his tent rejoicing and having a good heart over the good things which the LORD did to David his servant, and to Israel his people.
1KI 9:1 And it came to pass as Solomon completed constructing the house of the LORD, and the house of the king, and all the matters of Solomon, as many things as he wanted to do,
1KI 9:2 that the LORD appeared to Solomon the second time, as he appeared to him in Gibeon.
1KI 9:3 And the LORD said to him, I heard your prayer and your supplication, which you beseeched before me. I sanctified this house, which you built, to establish my name there into the eon; and my eyes and my heart will be there all the days.
1KI 9:4 And you, if you should go before me as your father David went, in sacredness of heart, and in straightness, to do according to all which I gave charge to him, and you should keep my orders and my commandments,
1KI 9:5 then I will raise up the throne of your kingdom over Israel into the eon, as I spoke to your father David, saying, There shall not be removed from you a man leading in Israel.
1KI 9:6 But if by turning, you should turn, you and your children, from me and my orders which I put before you, so as to not keep them, and you should go and should serve other gods, and should do obeisance to them;
1KI 9:7 then I will remove Israel from the land which I gave to them; and this house, which I sanctified to my name, I shall throw away from my face; and Israel will be for extinction and for a discussion among all the peoples.
1KI 9:8 And this lofty house - every one traveling by it shall be amazed, and shall whistle; and they shall say, For what reason did the LORD do thus to this land, and to this house?
1KI 9:9 And they shall say, Because they abandoned the LORD their God, the one leading their fathers from out of the house of slavery of Egypt, and they took hold of alien gods, and they did obeisance to them, and served to them. On account of this the LORD brought upon them all this evil.
1KI 9:10 And it came to pass after twenty years in which Solomon constructed the two houses, the house of the LORD, and the house of the king,
1KI 9:11 (Hiram the king of Tyre assisted Solomon with timbers of cedars, and with timbers of pines, and in gold, and in all his want,) that then king Solomon gave to Hiram twenty cities in the land in Galilee.
1KI 9:12 And Hiram came forth from out of Tyre, and went to Galilee to behold the cities which Solomon gave to him, and they did not please him.
1KI 9:13 And Hiram said, What are these cities which you gave to me, O brother? And he called them The Border until this day.
1KI 9:14 And Hiram sent to Solomon a hundred and twenty talents of gold.
1KI 9:15 And this is the matter of the plunder which king Solomon brought to build the house of the LORD, and the house of the king, and the wall of Jerusalem, and the Akra to enclose the barrier of the city of David, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.
1KI 9:16 For Pharaoh king of Egypt ascended and first took Gezer, and burnt it by fire, and the Canaanite dwelling in the city he put to death. And Pharaoh gave it as a dowry to his daughter, the wife of Solomon.
1KI 9:17 And Solomon built Gezer, and Beth-horon the lower,
1KI 9:18 and Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness,
1KI 9:19 and all the fortified cities which were to Solomon, and all the cities of the chariots, and all the cities of the horsemen, and the matters which Solomon engaged in to construct in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion;
1KI 9:20 and all the remaining people from the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, and the Gergasite, of the ones not being of the sons of Israel,
1KI 9:21 their children being left with them in the land, which the sons of Israel were not able to utterly destroy them, that Solomon led them into tribute until this day.
1KI 9:22 And from the sons of Israel Solomon did not appoint one for servitude; for they were men warriors, and his servants, and rulers, and his third rank, and rulers of his chariots, and his horsemen.
1KI 9:23 And the rulers were, (the ones having knowledge over the works of Solomon,) five hundred fifty dominating among the people doing work.
1KI 9:24 And the daughter of Pharaoh ascended from the city of David to her house which he built to her - then he built Millo.
1KI 9:25 And Solomon offered thrice in a year whole burnt offerings and peace offerings upon the altar he built to the LORD. And he burnt incense upon it, the one which was before the LORD - and he finished the house.
1KI 9:26 And king Solomon made a ship in Ezion Geber, the city being next to Eloth, upon the edge of the sea of the extreme part, in the land of Edom.
1KI 9:27 And Hiram sent in the ship men mariners of his servants,, (people knowing to row the sea,) with the servants of Solomon.
1KI 9:28 And they came unto Ophir, and they took from there four hundred and twenty talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.
1KI 10:1 And the queen of Sheba heard the name of Solomon, and the name of the LORD, and came to test him with enigmas.
1KI 10:2 And she came to Jerusalem with an exceedingly heavy force, and camels lifting aromatics, and exceedingly much gold, and much valuable stone. And she went to king Solomon, and spoke to him all as much as was in her heart.
1KI 10:3 And Solomon explained to her all the words of her questions. There was not a word being overlooked by the king, which he did not explain to her.
1KI 10:4 And the queen of Sheba beheld all the intellect of Solomon, and the house which he built,
1KI 10:5 and the foods for Solomon, and the form of his servants, and the position of his ministers, and their clothes, and his wine servers, and his whole burnt offering which he offered in the house of the LORD - and she was beside herself.
1KI 10:6 And she said to king Solomon, The word is true which I heard in my land concerning the word about you, and concerning your intellect.
1KI 10:7 And I trusted not in the ones speaking to me, until of which I came, and my eyes have seen. And behold, it is not according to the half as they reported to me. You have added wisdom and good things over all the report which I heard in my land.
1KI 10:8 Blessed are your wives, and blessed are these your servants standing before you continually, and hearing your intellect.
1KI 10:9 May the LORD your God be blessing whom he wants by you, to put you upon the throne of Israel; because the LORD loves Israel to establish it into the eon, and to set you for king over them, to execute judgment in righteousness, and in their equity.
1KI 10:10 And she gave to Solomon a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and exceedingly much spices, and valuable stone. There had not come as those spices yet in multitude which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
1KI 10:11 And the ship of Hiram, carrying the gold from out of Ophir, brought exceedingly much hewn timbers, and valuable stone.
1KI 10:12 And the king made the hewn timbers for supports of the house of the LORD, and the house of the king, and stringed instruments, and lutes for the singers. There had not come such unhewn timbers unto the land, nor was seen somewhere until this day.
1KI 10:13 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all as much as she wanted, and as much as she asked, outside of all which was given to her through the hand of king Solomon. And she returned and came unto her land, she and her servants.
1KI 10:14 And was the weight of the gold that came to Solomon in one year - six hundred sixty and six talents of gold,
1KI 10:15 apart from the tribute of the ones submitting, and the merchants, and all the kings of the other side of the Jordan, and the satraps of the land.
1KI 10:16 And king Solomon made two hundred spears of gold hammered out - six hundred weights of gold was used for the one spear.
1KI 10:17 And he made three hundred oblong shields of gold hammered out. Three minas of gold were used for the one oblong shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
1KI 10:18 And the king made a great ivory throne, and gilded it in unadulterated gold -
1KI 10:19 with six stairs to the throne, and the upper part had calves from the places behind it to the throne. And There were hand rails on this side and that side upon the place of the chair, and two lions standing by the hand rails.
1KI 10:20 And there were twelve lions standing upon the six stairs on this side and that side. There was not such in any kingdom.
1KI 10:21 And all the vessels used by Solomon were of gold, and the bathing tubs were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were completely of gold. And there was not silver, for it was not thought anything in the days of Solomon.
1KI 10:22 For a ship of Tarshish belonged to king Solomon upon the sea with the ships of Hiram. One ship came to the king every three years out of Tarshish, with gold and silver, and turned and hewn stones.
1KI 10:23 And Solomon was magnified above all the kings of the earth in riches and intellect.
1KI 10:24 And all the kings of the earth sought the face of Solomon, to hear his intellect, which the LORD put in his heart.
1KI 10:25 And each brought his gifts to him - items of silver, and items of gold, and clothes, balsam and spices, and horses, and mules according to year by year.
1KI 10:26 And Solomon brought chariots and horsemen. And there were to him a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. And he put them in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem.
1KI 10:27 And the king put the silver in Jerusalem as stones, and the cedars he put as the sycamine trees in the plain in multitude.
1KI 10:28 And the exiting of the horsemen of Solomon was from out of Egypt. And from out of Kue - the merchants of the king took merchandise from out of Kue in barter.
1KI 10:29 And there ascended an exiting from out of Egypt - a chariot for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for a hundred fifty pieces of silver. And thus to all the kings of the Hittites, and to the kings of Syria - by their hand they came forth.
1KI 11:1 And king Solomon was fond of women, and he took alien wives, and the daughter of Pharaoh, and Moabitish, and Ammonitish, and Edomites, and Sidonians, and Hittites -
1KI 11:2 they were from out of the nations which the LORD forbade to the sons of Israel, saying, You shall not enter to them, and they shall not enter to you; that they should not turn aside your hearts after their idols - for of them Solomon cleaved to love.
1KI 11:3 And there were to him wives ruling - seven hundred, and three hundred concubines. And his wives leaned his heart.
1KI 11:4 And it came to pass in a time of old age of Solomon, that his wives turned aside his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.
1KI 11:5 And Solomon went after Ashtoreth god of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of Ammon.
1KI 11:6 And Solomon did evil before the LORD, and did not go after the LORD as David his father.
1KI 11:7 Then Solomon built a high place to Chemosh, the idol of Moab, in the mountain before Jerusalem, and to Molech the idol of the sons of Ammon.
1KI 11:8 And thus he did for all his alien wives, who were burning incense and sacrificing to their idols.
1KI 11:9 And the LORD was provoked to anger at Solomon, for he turned aside his heart from the LORD God of Israel - the one appearing to him twice.
1KI 11:10 And it was being given charge to him, for this thorough word - to not go after other gods. And he guarded not what the LORD gave charge to him.
1KI 11:11 And the LORD said to Solomon, Because these things happened with you, and you guarded not my commandments and my orders, which I gave charge to you, in tearing I will tear up your kingdom from out of your hand, and will give it to your servant.
1KI 11:12 Except in your days I will not do them on account of David your father - from out of the hand of your son I will take it.
1KI 11:13 Except the entire kingdom in no way shall I take. One chiefdom I will give to your son because of David my servant, and because of Jerusalem the city which I chose.
1KI 11:14 And the LORD raised up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite - from out of the seed of the kingdom in Edom.
1KI 11:15 And it happened in David utterly destroying Edom, in the going of Joab the ruler of the military to bury the slain, that they smote every male in Edom;
1KI 11:16 (for six months Joab laid in wait there and all Israel, until of which time he utterly destroyed every man of Edom.)
1KI 11:17 and Hadad ran away, he and the Edomite men of the servants of his father with him. And they entered into Egypt. And Hadad was a small boy.
1KI 11:18 And they rose up from out of Midian, and came into Paran. And they took men with themselves, and came to Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Hadad entered to Pharaoh, and Pharaoh gave to him a house, and ordered breads for him, and gave land to him.
1KI 11:19 And Hadad found favor before Pharaoh, exceedingly. And he gave to him a wife, the sister of his wife - the older sister of Tahpenes.
1KI 11:20 And the sister of Tahpenes bore to him, to Hadad, Genubath her son. And Tahpenes nourished him in the midst of the house of Pharaoh. And Genubath was in the house of Pharaoh in the midst of the sons of Pharaoh.
1KI 11:21 And Hadad heard in Egypt that David had gone to sleep with his fathers, and that Joab the ruler of the military had died. And Hadad said to Pharaoh, Send me, and I will return unto my land.
1KI 11:22 And Pharaoh said to Hadad, What do you lack with me, that behold, you seek to go forth into your land? And Hadad said to him, Not one thing, but by sending you shall send me.
1KI 11:23 And God raised up another adversary against him, Rezon son of Eliadah, who fled from Hadadezer king of Zobah his master.
1KI 11:24 And men were gathered together against him; and he was ruler of the confederation, and he first took Damascus, and settled in it, and reigned in Damascus.
1KI 11:25 And there was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon - this is the evil which Hadad did, and oppressed against Israel, and reigned in the land of Edom.
1KI 11:26 And Jeroboam son of Nebat, the Ephrathite from Zereda, son of a widow woman, was a servant of Solomon.
1KI 11:27 And this was the thing he did as he lifted up the hand against king Solomon. And king Solomon built the Akra, and completed the barrier of the city of David his father.
1KI 11:28 And the man Jeroboam was strong in power. And Solomon saw the young man, that he is a man of works, and he placed him over the tribute of the house of Joseph.
1KI 11:29 And it came to pass in that time that Jeroboam came forth out of Jerusalem, and Ahijah the Shilonite the prophet found him in the way; and Ahijah separated him from the way. And Ahijah was wearing a new cloak, and both were alone in the plain.
1KI 11:30 And Ahijah took hold of his own cloak, the new one upon him, and tore it into twelve pieces.
1KI 11:31 And he said to Jeroboam, Take for yourself ten pieces! For thus says the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I tear the kingdom from out of the hand of Solomon, and I give to you ten chiefdoms.
1KI 11:32 And two chiefdoms will be his, on account of my servant David, and on account of Jerusalem the city which I chose in it from out of all the tribes of Israel -
1KI 11:33 because he abandoned me, and offered unto Ashtoreth the abomination of the Sidonians, and to Chemosh the idol of Moab, and to Milcom the loathsome thing of the sons of Ammon. And he went not in my ways to do the upright thing before me, and my orders, and my ordinances, as David his father did.
1KI 11:34 And in no way will I take the kingdom entirely from his hand; (for by resisting I shall resist him all the days of his life,) because of David my servant - whom I chose him, who guarded the commandments and my ordinances.
1KI 11:35 And I shall take the kingdom from out of the hand of his son, and I will give to you the ten chiefdoms.
1KI 11:36 But to his son I will give the two chiefdoms, so that there might be a designation to my servant David all the days before me in Jerusalem, the city which I chose for myself to put my name there.
1KI 11:37 And you shall take, and you shall reign in wherever your soul desires, and you will be king over Israel.
1KI 11:38 And it will be if you should guard all as much as I gave charge to you, and should go in my ways, and do the upright thing before me, to keep my orders, and my commandments, as did David my servant; then I will be with you, and I shall build for you a sure house, as I built to David.
1KI 11:39 And I will give to you Israel, and I will mistreat the seed of David on account of these things, except not for all the days.
1KI 11:40 And Solomon sought to put Jeroboam to death. And he rose up, and ran away unto Egypt, to Shishak king of Egypt. And he was in Egypt until Solomon died.
1KI 11:41 And the rest of the words of Solomon, and all as many things as he did, and all his intellect - behold, have not these been written in the scroll of the sayings of Solomon?
1KI 11:42 And the days which Solomon reigned in Jerusalem was forty years over all Israel.
1KI 11:43 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 12:1 And king Rehoboam went to Shechem; for all Israel came unto Shechem to give him reign.
1KI 12:2 And it came to pass as Jeroboam son of Nebat heard of it, (and he was still being in Egypt, as he had fled from the face of king Solomon, and settled in Egypt;)
1KI 12:3 that they sent and called him. And Jeroboam came and all the people of Israel. And the people spoke to king Rehoboam, saying,
1KI 12:4 Your father hardened our neck yoke. And you now, lighten of the hard servitude of your father, and from his heavy neck yoke, of which he put upon us, and we will serve to you!
1KI 12:5 And he said to them, Go forth for three days, and return to me! And they went forth.
1KI 12:6 And king Rehoboam reported to the elders who were standing before Solomon his father while he was still living, saying, How do you counsel that I should answer to this people a word?
1KI 12:7 And they spoke to him, saying, If in this day you will be a servant to this people, and should serve them, and shall speak to them with good words, then they will be to you servants all the days.
1KI 12:8 And he abandoned the counsel of the elders, which they advised him, and took up advice with the young men being brought up with him standing before his face.
1KI 12:9 And he said to them, What do you advise, and what should I answer to this people speaking to me, saying, Lighten up the neck yoke which your father put upon us?
1KI 12:10 And they spoke to him - the young men having been brought up with him. And they said, Thus you shall speak to this people speaking to you, saying, Your father oppressed our neck yoke, and you now lighten it from us! Thus you shall say to them, My thinness is thicker than the loin of my father.
1KI 12:11 And now, my father saddled you with a heavy neck yoke, and I will add unto your neck yoke. My father corrected you with whips, but I will correct you with scorpions.
1KI 12:12 And Jeroboam came, and all Israel to king Rehoboam on the third day, as the king spoke to them, saying, Return to me the third day!
1KI 12:13 And the king answered to the people hard. And Rehoboam abandoned the counsel of the elders which they advised him.
1KI 12:14 And he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, My father oppressed your neck yoke, and I shall add to your neck yoke. My father corrected you with whips, and I will correct you with scorpions.
1KI 12:15 And the king did not hear the people, for it was a conversion by the LORD, so that his word should stand, which he spoke by the hand of Ahijah the Shilonite over Jeroboam son of Nebat.
1KI 12:16 And all Israel knew that the king hearkened not to them. And the people answered to the king, saying, What is our portion with David? and, There is not an inheritance to us with the son of Jesse. Run, O Israel, to your tents! Now graze your own house, David! And Israel went forth to his tents.
1KI 12:17 And the sons of Israel dwelling in the cities of Judah gave reign to Rehoboam over them.
1KI 12:18 And king Rehoboam sent Adoram, the one for collecting the tribute. And all Israel stoned him with stones, and he died. And king Rehoboam anticipated by ascending upon the chariot, to flee into Jerusalem.
1KI 12:19 And Israel annulled allegiance with the house of David until this day.
1KI 12:20 And it came to pass as all Israel heard that Jeroboam returned from out of Egypt, that they sent and called him to the congregation. And they gave him reign over Israel. And there was not one following after the house of David except the chiefdom of Judah and Benjamin only.
1KI 12:21 And Rehoboam entered into Jerusalem, and he held an assembly of all the congregation of Judah, and the chiefdom of Benjamin - a hundred and twenty thousand young men for making war, to wage war against the house of Israel, to return the kingdom of Rehoboam son of Solomon.
1KI 12:22 And there came to pass the word of the LORD to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
1KI 12:23 Speak to Rehoboam, son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the rest of the people! saying,
1KI 12:24 Thus says the LORD, You shall not ascend, nor wage war with your brethren of the sons of Israel. Let each return to his house, for from me this thing has taken place! And they hearkened to the word of the LORD, and ceased to go against the saying of the LORD.
1KI 12:25 And Jeroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt in it; and he went forth from there and built Penuel.
1KI 12:26 And Jeroboam said in his heart, Behold, now the kingdom shall return to the house of David.
1KI 12:27 If this people should ascend to offer a sacrifice in the house of the LORD in Jerusalem, then the heart of the people shall turn towards their master, to Rehoboam king of Judah, and they shall kill me.
1KI 12:28 And the king consulted, and made two heifers of gold. And he said to the people, Let it be enough for you to ascend to Jerusalem! Behold, your gods, O Israel, the ones leading you from out of the land of Egypt.
1KI 12:29 And he put the one in Beth-el, and the other one he put in Dan.
1KI 12:30 And this account came to pass for sin. And the people went after the one unto Dan.
1KI 12:31 And he made houses upon high places, and appointed priests from any part of the people who were not of the sons of Levi.
1KI 12:32 And Jeroboam made a holiday feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, according to the holiday in Judah. And he ascended unto the altar which he made in Beth-el, to sacrifice to the heifers which he made. And he placed in Beth-el the priests of the high places which he made.
1KI 12:33 And he ascended unto the altar which he made in the fifteenth day in the eighth month, in the holiday which he shaped out of his own heart. And he made the holiday for the sons of Israel, and ascended unto the altar to sacrifice upon it.
1KI 13:1 And behold, a man of God came from out of Judah with a word of the LORD unto Beth-el. And Jeroboam stood upon the altar to sacrifice.
1KI 13:2 And he called upon the altar with the word of the LORD, and said, O altar, O altar, thus says the LORD, Behold, a son is born to the house of David, Josiah is his name, and he shall sacrifice upon you the priests of the high places sacrificing upon you, and bones of men he shall burn upon you.
1KI 13:3 And he executed in that day a miracle, saying, This is the saying which the LORD spoke, saying, Behold, the altar is torn, and the fatness being upon it shall be poured out.
1KI 13:4 And it came to pass as king Jeroboam heard the words of the man of God calling upon the altar in Beth-el, that he stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, Seize him! And his hand withered which he stretched out against him, and he was not able to return it to himself.
1KI 13:5 And the altar tore, and the fatness poured out from the altar, according to the portent which the man of God gave by the word of the LORD.
1KI 13:6 And the king answered, and said to the man of God, Beseech the face of the LORD your God, and return my hand to me! And the man of God beseeched the face of the LORD, and the hand of the king returned to him, and became as formerly.
1KI 13:7 And the king spoke to the man of God, Enter with me to my house and dine, and I will give to you a gift!
1KI 13:8 And the man of God said to the king, If you should give to me half of your house, I will not enter with you, neither will I eat bread, nor drink water in this place.
1KI 13:9 For thus the LORD gave charge to me by a word, saying, In no way should you eat bread, nor in any way should you drink water, nor in any way should you return in the way in which you came by it.
1KI 13:10 And he went forth by another way, and returned not in the way which he came by it unto Beth-el.
1KI 13:11 And a prophet, one old man, dwelt in Beth-el. And his sons came and described to him all the works which the man of God did in that day in Beth-el, and the words which he spoke to the king. And they turned the face of their father.
1KI 13:12 And their father said to them, saying, Which way has he went? And his sons showed to him the way which the man of God went, the one coming from out of Judah.
1KI 13:13 And he said to his sons, Saddle for me the donkey! And they saddled for him the donkey. And he mounted upon him,
1KI 13:14 and went after the man of God, and found him sitting down under the oak, and said to him, Are you the man of God coming from out of Judah? And he said, I am.
1KI 13:15 And he said to him, Come with me, and eat bread!
1KI 13:16 And he said, In no way am I able to return with you, nor should I eat bread, nor in any way should I drink water in this place.
1KI 13:17 For so it has been given charge to me by the word of the LORD, saying, You shall not eat bread there, and you shall not drink water, and you shall not return there in the way in which you went by it.
1KI 13:18 And he said to him, And I am a prophet as you, and an angel spoke to me by word of the LORD, saying, Return him with yourself to your house, and let him eat bread, and drink water! But he lied to him.
1KI 13:19 And he returned him, and he ate bread, and he drank water in his house.
1KI 13:20 And it came to pass of them sitting down at the table, that the word of the LORD came to the prophet having returned him.
1KI 13:21 And he said to the man of God having come from out of Judah, saying, Thus says the LORD, Because you rebelled against the saying of the LORD, and guarded not the commandment which the LORD your God gave charge to you,
1KI 13:22 but you returned and ate bread, and drank water in this place, in which he spoke to you, saying, You shall not eat bread nor drink water - in no way shall your body enter into the burying-place of your fathers.
1KI 13:23 And it came to pass after he ate bread and drank water, that he saddled for him the donkey - for the prophet, and he returned.
1KI 13:24 And he went forth, and a lion found him in the way, and killed him. And his body was tossed in the way, and the donkey stood by it, and the lion stood by the body.
1KI 13:25 And behold, men coming near also beheld the decaying flesh tossed in the way, and the lion standing next to the decaying flesh. And they entered and spoke in the city of which the prophet, the old man, dwelt in it.
1KI 13:26 And the one returning him from out of the way heard, and said, This is the man of God who rebelled against the word of the LORD. And the LORD gave him to the lion, and it broke him, and it killed him, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke to him.
1KI 13:27 And he spoke to his sons, saying, You saddle for me the donkey! And they saddled it.
1KI 13:28 And he went, and found his body having been tossed in the way, and the donkey and the lion were standing by the body, and the lion did not eat the body, and it did not break the donkey.
1KI 13:29 And the prophet lifted the body of the man of God, and placed it upon the donkey, and returned it to the city of the old prophet, to lament and to entomb him.
1KI 13:30 And he put his body in his tomb. And they lamented him, saying, Woe, O brother.
1KI 13:31 And it came to pass after lamenting him, that he said to his sons, saying, If I die, entomb me in this tomb in which the man of God was entombed in it! Put me by his bones, that my bones should be preserved with his bones!
1KI 13:32 For the saying which he spoke by the word of the LORD will be coming to pass against the altar in Beth-el, and against the houses of the high places in Samaria.
1KI 13:33 And after this saying Jeroboam turned not from his evil, but returned and appointed from part of the people priests of the high places. The one wanting to be a priest he filled the post by his hand, and he became priest of the high places.
1KI 13:34 And this thing came to pass for sin to the house of Jeroboam, and for ruin, and for extinction from the face of the earth.
1KI 14:1 In that time Abijah son of Jeroboam was ill.
1KI 14:2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, Rise up and change that they shall not know that you are the wife of Jeroboam, and go unto Shiloh! Behold, Ahijah the prophet is there, he spoke unto me to reign over this people.
1KI 14:3 And take in your hand ten breads, and small cakes, and a jar of honey, and you shall go to him - he will announce to you what will be to the child.
1KI 14:4 And the wife of Jeroboam did thus, and rose up, and went to Shiloh, and entered into the house of Ahijah. And the man was old for seeing, and his eyes were blunted from his old age.
1KI 14:5 And the LORD said to Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam enters to seek an utterance from you concerning her son, for he is ill. According to this and according to that you shall speak to her. And it came to pass in her entering that she was as estranged.
1KI 14:6 And it came to pass as Ahijah heard the sound of her feet of her entering in the passage, that he said, Enter, O wife of Jeroboam! Why is this you are as estranged, and I am a harsh envoy to you?
1KI 14:7 In going, say to Jeroboam, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, Because as much as I exalted you from the midst of the people, and appointed you leading over the people of Israel,
1KI 14:8 and tore the crown of state from the house of David, and gave it to you; and yet you have not become as my servant David, who kept my commandments, and who went after me with all his heart, to do the upright thing in my eyes.
1KI 14:9 But you did wickedly doing more than all as many as were in front of you. And you went and made to yourself other gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and tossed me behind you.
1KI 14:10 On account of this, behold, I bring evil to the house of Jeroboam, and I will utterly destroy of Jeroboam the one urinating against a wall, the one coming and the one being left behind in Israel, and will choose over the house of Jeroboam as one chooses the dung unto finishing it.
1KI 14:11 The one having died of Jeroboam in the city the dogs shall devour; and the one having died in the field the birds of heaven shall devour - for the LORD spoke.
1KI 14:12 And you, rising up, go unto your house! In the entering of your feet in the city the child shall die.
1KI 14:13 And all Israel shall lament him, and entomb him, for this one only shall enter to Jeroboam to the tomb, for there shall be found in him a good word concerning the LORD God of Israel among the house of Jeroboam.
1KI 14:14 And the LORD will raise up for himself a king over Israel, who shall strike the house of Jeroboam this day - and yet also indeed now.
1KI 14:15 And the LORD shall strike Israel as the reed shaken in the water. And he shall pluck out Israel upward of this good soil, which he gave to their fathers, and shall winnow them on the other side of the river, because of as many of their sacred groves they made, provoking the LORD to anger.
1KI 14:16 And the LORD gave up Israel favorably from the sins of Jeroboam, who sinned and who led Israel into sin.
1KI 14:17 And the wife of Jeroboam rose up, and went unto Tizrah. And it came to pass as she entered in the threshold of the house, that the child died.
1KI 14:18 And they entombed it, and all Israel lamented it, according to the word of the LORD, the word he spoke by the hand of his servant Ahijah the prophet.
1KI 14:19 And the extra things of Jeroboam, as much as he waged war, and as much as he reigned, behold, they are written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel.
1KI 14:20 And the days which Jeroboam reigned - twenty and two years. And he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 14:21 And Rehoboam son of Solomon reigned over Judah. Rehoboam was a son being forty and one years old in his being given reign. And seventeen years he reigned in Jerusalem, in the city in which the LORD chose to put his name there from out of all of the tribes of Israel. And the name of his mother was Naamah the Ammonitess.
1KI 14:22 And Judah acted wickedly before the LORD, and provoked him to jealousy in all the things which his fathers did in their sins which they sinned.
1KI 14:23 And they built for themselves high places, and monuments, and sacred groves upon every high hill, and underneath every shady tree.
1KI 14:24 And bonding together took place in the land, and they did from all the abominations of the nations which the LORD removed in front of the sons of Israel.
1KI 14:25 And it came to pass in the fifth year of the reigning of Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt ascended against Jerusalem.
1KI 14:26 And he took all the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the house of the king, even the whole he took, and the shields of gold which Solomon made.
1KI 14:27 And Rehoboam the king made shields of brass instead of them, and the leaders of the bodyguards were set in place by him, guarding the vestibule of the house of the king.
1KI 14:28 And it came to pass when the king entered into the house of the LORD, that the bodyguards lifted them, and fastened them in the vestibule of the bodyguards.
1KI 14:29 And the rest of the words of Rehoboam, and all the things which he did, behold are these not written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
1KI 14:30 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days.
1KI 14:31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers. And they entombed him with his fathers in the city of David. And the name of his mother was Naamah the Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 15:1 And in the eighteenth year of the reigning of Jeroboam son of Nebat, Abijam son of Rehoboam reigned over Judah.
1KI 15:2 And three years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Maachah daughter of Abishalom.
1KI 15:3 And he went in the sins of his father, which he did before him. And his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as the heart of David his grandfather.
1KI 15:4 But on account of David the LORD his God gave to him a vestige in Jerusalem, that he should establish his children after him, and establish Jerusalem -
1KI 15:5 as David did the upright thing before the LORD, and did not turn aside from all which he gave charge to him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
1KI 15:6 And war was between Rehoboam and between Jeroboam all the days of his life.
1KI 15:7 And the rest of the words of Abijam and all the things which he did, behold are these not written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and between Jeroboam.
1KI 15:8 And Abijam slept with his fathers. And they entombed him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 15:9 In the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa reigned over Judah.
1KI 15:10 And forty and one year he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his grandmother was Maachah daughter of Abishalom.
1KI 15:11 And Asa did the upright thing before the LORD as David his forefather.
1KI 15:12 And he removed the mystic rites from the land, and sent out all the practices which his fathers did.
1KI 15:13 And he removed Maachah his mother, so as to not be ruling, as she observed a convocation in her sacred grove; and Asa cut off her retreats, and burnt them in fire at the rushing stream Kidron.
1KI 15:14 But the high places he removed not. Except the heart of Asa was perfect with the LORD all his days.
1KI 15:15 And Asa carried into the house of the LORD the monumental pillars of his father, and the monumental pillars of silver and of gold; and he carried into the house of the LORD silver and gold and vessels.
1KI 15:16 And there was war between Asa and between Baasha king of Israel all their days.
1KI 15:17 And Baasha king of Israel ascended against Judah, and built Ramah, so as not to be going forth and entering to Asa king of Judah.
1KI 15:18 And Asa took all the silver and the gold being found in the treasuries of the house of the LORD, and in the treasuries of the house of the king, and put them into the hands of his servants. And king Asa sent them to the son of Hadad, son of Tabrimon, son of Hezion, king of Syria, the one dwelling in Damascus, saying,
1KI 15:19 A covenant between me and between you, and between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent to you gifts of silver and of gold; come efface your covenant with Baasha king of Israel, and he shall ascend from me!
1KI 15:20 And the son of Hadad hearkened to king Asa, and sent the rulers of his force in to the cities of Israel, and struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel of the house of Maachah, and all Cinneroth, unto all the land of Naphtali.
1KI 15:21 And it came to pass when Baasha heard, that he stopped the building of Ramah, and returned unto Tizrah.
1KI 15:22 And king Asa exhorted all Judah with no exceptions. And they lifted the stones of Ramah, and its timbers, which Baasha constructed; and Asa the king built with them the hill of Benjamin, and the height.
1KI 15:23 And the rest of the words of Asa, and all his dominion, and all which he did, and the cities which he built, behold are these not written upon a scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? Only in the time of his old age his feet caused pain.
1KI 15:24 And Asa slept with his fathers. And they entombed him with his fathers in the city of David his forefather. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 15:25 And Nadab son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years.
1KI 15:26 And he acted wickedly before the LORD, and went in the way of his father, and in his sins in the things which he led Israel into sin.
1KI 15:27 And Baasha son of Ahijah over the house of Issachar besieged against him, and struck him in Gibbethon, the city of the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel were besieging at Gibbethon.
1KI 15:28 And Baasha put him to death in the third year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned instead of him.
1KI 15:29 And it came to pass as he reigned, he struck the entire house of Jeroboam; and he left not any that breathed of Jeroboam, until utterly destroying him, (according to the saying of the LORD which he spoke by the hand of his servant Ahijah the Shilonite,)
1KI 15:30 for the sins of Jeroboam which he led Israel into sin, and in his provoking to anger, in which he provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel.
1KI 15:31 And the rest of the words of Nadab, and all the things which he did, behold are these not written in a scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1KI 15:32 And war was between Asa and between Baasha king of Israel all their days.
1KI 15:33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha son of Ahijah reigned over Israel in Tizrah, twenty and four years.
1KI 15:34 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD, and went in the way of Jeroboam son of Nebat, and in his sins in which he led Israel into sin.
1KI 16:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD unto Jehu son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
1KI 16:2 Because I exalted you above the earth, and gave you lead over my people Israel; and you went in the way of Jeroboam, and led my people Israel into sin, to provoke me to anger by their vanities;
1KI 16:3 behold, I arouse enemies after Baasha, and after his house; and I will appoint your house as the house of Jeroboam son of Nebat.
1KI 16:4 The one having died of Baasha in the city - the dogs shall eat him. And the one having died of his in the plain - the birds of the heaven shall eat him.
1KI 16:5 And the rest of the words of Baasha, and all which he did, and his dominations, behold are these not written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1KI 16:6 And Baasha slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in Tirzah; and Elah his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 16:7 And the LORD spoke by the hand of Jehu son of Hanani against Baasha, and against his house, and upon all the evil which he did before the LORD, in provoking him to anger by the works of his hands, for him to be as the house of Jeroboam, and for striking him.
1KI 16:8 In the sixth and twentieth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah son of Baasha reigned over Israel in Tirzah two years.
1KI 16:9 And his servant was confederated against him - Zimri, the ruler of half the chariots. And he was in Tirzah drinking, being intoxicated in the house of Azra the manager in Tirzah.
1KI 16:10 And Zimri entered and struck him, and killed him in the seventh and twentieth year, and reigned instead of him.
1KI 16:11 And it came to pass in his taking reign, in his sitting upon his throne, he struck the entire house of Baasha. And he left not to it one urinating against the wall, even the relatives, and of his friends.
1KI 16:12 And Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha, according to the saying which the LORD spoke against the house of Baasha, by Jehu the prophet,
1KI 16:13 on account of all the sins of Baasha, and his son Elah, as he led Israel into sin, provoking to anger the LORD God of Israel in their vanities.
1KI 16:14 And the rest of the words of Elah, and all which he did, behold are these not written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1KI 16:15 In the twentieth and seventh year of Asa king of Judah Zimri reigned in Tizrah seven days. And the camp of Israel was upon Gibbethon the city of the Philistines.
1KI 16:16 And the people heard in the camp, saying, Zimri conspired, and smote the king. And they gave reign in Israel to Omri, the one leading the military over Israel in that day, in the camp.
1KI 16:17 And Omri ascended from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged against Tizrah.
1KI 16:18 And it came to pass as Zimri beheld that his city was taken, that he entered into the inner room of the house of the king, and set on fire the house of the king over himself with fire, and died
1KI 16:19 for his sins which he did to act wickedly before the LORD, to go in the way of Jeroboam son of Nebat, and in his sins which he committed as he led Israel into sin.
1KI 16:20 And the rest of the words of Zimri, and his associations which he joined in, behold are these not written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1KI 16:21 Then the people of Israel parted; half the people went after Tibni son of Ginath, for him to reign; and half of the people went after Omri.
1KI 16:22 And the people being after Omri prevailed against the people that followed after Tibni son of Ginath. And Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
1KI 16:23 In the thirtieth and first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri reigned over Israel twelve years. In Tirzah he reigned six years.
1KI 16:24 And Omri acquired the mountain Samaria from Shemer, the lord of the mountain for two talents of silver, and built on the mountain, and called the name of the mountain of which he built upon after the name of Shemer, the lord of the mountain - Samaria.
1KI 16:25 And Omri did the wicked thing before the LORD, and was wicked over all the ones being prior of him.
1KI 16:26 And he went in all the way of Jeroboam son of Nebat, and in his sins in which he led Israel into sin, to provoke to anger the LORD God of Israel in their vanities.
1KI 16:27 And the rest of the words of Omri, and all which he did, and his dominations, behold are these not written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1KI 16:28 And Omri slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in Samaria. And Ahab his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 16:29 But Ahab son of Omri reigned over Israel in the thirtieth and eighth year of Asa king of Judah. And Ahab son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty and two years.
1KI 16:30 And Ahab did the wicked thing before the LORD, and was wicked above all the ones prior of him.
1KI 16:31 And it was not enough for him to go in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, but he took for wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians. And he went and served to Baal, and did obeisance to him.
1KI 16:32 And he set up an altar to Baal in the house of Baal, which he built in Samaria.
1KI 16:33 And Ahab prepared the sacred grove. And Ahab proceeded to make provocations to provoke the LORD God of Israel to anger above all the kings of Israel being prior of him.
1KI 16:34 In his days Hiel the Beth-elite built Jericho; he laid its foundation with Abiram his first-born, and with Segub his younger he set up its doors, according to the saying of the LORD, which he spoke by the hand of Joshua son of Nun.
1KI 17:1 And Elijah the Tishbite said, the one from Tishbon of Gilead, to Ahab, As the LORD lives, the God of Israel, in whom I stand before him, Shall there be these years dew and rain - only that unless it be through the word of my mouth.
1KI 17:2 And came to pass the saying of the LORD to Elijah.
1KI 17:3 Go from here, according to the east, and hide at the rushing stream Cherith, upon the face of the Jordan!
1KI 17:4 And it will be from out of the rushing stream you shall drink water; and to the crows I shall give charge to nourish you there.
1KI 17:5 And Elijah went and did according to the saying of the LORD. And he settled by the rushing stream Cherith, upon the face of the Jordan.
1KI 17:6 And the crows brought to him breads and meat in the morning, and breads and meat in the afternoon. And from out of the rushing stream he drank water.
1KI 17:7 And it came to pass after many days, that the rushing stream dried up, for there was not rain upon the land.
1KI 17:8 And the word of the LORD came to pass to Elijah, saying,
1KI 17:9 Rise up, and go into Sarepta of the Sidonians - and you shall dwell there! Behold, I have given charge there for a widow woman to nourish you.
1KI 17:10 And he rose up and went into Sarepta. And came unto the gate-house of the city. And behold, there a widow woman was collecting together wood. And Elijah yelled out after her, and said to her, Take indeed for me a little water into a container, and I shall drink.
1KI 17:11 And she went to take, and Elijah yelled out after her, and said to her, Give indeed to me the morsel of bread in your hand, and I will eat.
1KI 17:12 And the woman said, As the LORD your God lives, If there is to me a cake baked in hot ashes - good? but I only have as much as a handful of flour in the pitcher, and a little olive oil in the jar. And behold, I shall collected together two sticks, and I shall enter and make it for myself and my children, and we shall eat, and die.
1KI 17:13 And Elijah said to her, Be of courage! Enter and do according to your word! But make for me from there a small cake baked in hot ashes at first, and bring it forth to me! And to yourself you shall make and to your children at last.
1KI 17:14 For thus says the LORD God of Israel, The pitcher of flour shall not fail, and the jar of olive oil shall not have less, until the days of the giving by the LORD the rain upon the earth.
1KI 17:15 And the woman went and did according to the word of Elijah. And she gave to him, and he ate, and she and her children.
1KI 17:16 And the pitcher of flour failed not, and the jar of olive oil had not less, according to the saying of the LORD, which he spoke by the hand of Elijah.
1KI 17:17 And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman who was the lady of the house became ill, and his illness was fortified very much, until of which not was left behind in him a breath.
1KI 17:18 And she said to Elijah, What is it to me and to you, O man of God, for you to enter to me, to call to mind my iniquities, and to kill my son?
1KI 17:19 And Elijah said to the woman, Give me your son! And he took him from out of her bosom, and brought him into the upper room in which he settled there, and rested him upon his bed.
1KI 17:20 And Elijah yelled out to the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, also indeed the widow with whom I dwell with her, have you inflicted evil to kill her son?
1KI 17:21 And he breathed into the boy three times, and called upon the LORD, and he said, O LORD my God, return indeed the life of this boy to him!
1KI 17:22 And it became so, and the life of the boy returned to him, and the boy yelled out.
1KI 17:23 And he led him from the upper room into the house, and gave it to his mother. And Elijah said, See, your son lives!
1KI 17:24 And the woman said to Elijah, Behold, I know that you are a man of God, and the word of the LORD in your mouth is true.
1KI 18:1 And it came to pass after many days, and the word of the LORD came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, and appear to Ahab! And I will put rain upon the face of the earth.
1KI 18:2 And Elijah went to appear to Ahab. And there was a strong famine in Samaria.
1KI 18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah the manager. (And Obadiah was fearing the LORD exceedingly.
1KI 18:4 And it came to pass when Jezebel struck the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took a hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in two caves, and nourished them with bread and water.)
1KI 18:5 And Ahab said to Obadiah, Come, and we should go through in the land unto the springs of the waters, and unto all the rushing streams, if perchance we should find pasturage, and we should preserve the horses and mules, and the cattle shall not be destroyed from us.
1KI 18:6 And they divided to themselves the way to go by it - Ahab went by one way, and Obadiah went by another way alone.
1KI 18:7 And Obadiah was in the way alone, and behold, Elijah came to meet with him. And Obadiah hastened and fell upon his face, and said, Are you he, O my master, Elijah?
1KI 18:8 And Elijah said to him, I am, Go, tell your master! Behold, Elijah.
1KI 18:9 And Obadiah said, How have I sinned that you appoint your servant into the hands of Ahab to kill me?
1KI 18:10 As the LORD your God lives, is there a nation or kingdom of which my master did not send to seek you? And if they said, He is not here, then he adjured the kingdom and its places, for he did not find you.
1KI 18:11 And now you say, Go, announce to your master! Behold, Elijah.
1KI 18:12 And it will be if I should go forth from you, and a wind of the LORD shall lift you into the land which I know not; and I shall enter to report to Ahab, and he should not find you, then he will kill me. But your servant is fearing the LORD from out of his youth.
1KI 18:13 Or was it not reported to you my master what things I have done when Jezebel killed the prophets of the LORD, that I took some of the prophets of the LORD - a hundred men, and hid them in the caves by fifty, and I maintained them with breads and water?
1KI 18:14 And now you say, Go, tell your master, Behold, Elijah! - and he will kill me.
1KI 18:15 And Elijah said, As the LORD of the forces lives, in which I stand before him, that today I will appear to him.
1KI 18:16 And Obadiah went to meet with Ahab, and he reported to him. And Ahab ran forth and went to meet with Elijah.
1KI 18:17 And it came to pass as Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said to Elijah, Are you he turning aside Israel?
1KI 18:18 And Elijah said, I do not turn aside Israel; but you, and the house of your father, in your leaving the LORD your God, and to go after the Baalim.
1KI 18:19 And now, send and gather together to me all Israel at mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal - four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the sacred groves - four hundred, eating at the table of Jezebel!
1KI 18:20 And Ahab sent into all Israel, and assembled all the prophets to mount Carmel.
1KI 18:21 And Elijah came near to all the people, and said to them, For how long will you be lame upon both your hams? If the LORD is God, go after him! But if Baal, go after him! And the people answered not a word.
1KI 18:22 And Elijah said to the people, I am left alone a prophet of the LORD; and the prophets of Baal are four hundred and fifty men.
1KI 18:23 Give then to us two oxen; and let them choose for themselves one, and let them dismember it, and place it upon the wood, and do not put fire upon it! And I will do the same with the other ox, and in no way will I put fire upon it.
1KI 18:24 And you yell out in the name of your gods, and I will call upon the name of the LORD my God. And it will be the God who ever heeds by fire, this is God. And all the people answered and said, The word is good which you have spoken.
1KI 18:25 And Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, Choose for yourselves the one ox, and prepare it first! For to you are many; and call in the name of your god, and do not put fire upon it!
1KI 18:26 And they took the ox, and offered it, and called in the name of Baal from morning until midday. And they said, Heed us, O Baal, heed us! And there was not a sound, and there was not a hearing anything. And they ran upon the altar of which they made.
1KI 18:27 And it became midday, and Elijah the Tishbite sneered at them, and he said, Call with a great voice! Perhaps he is himself in some meditation, and at the same time perhaps he is executing business, or perhaps he sleeps, and shall rise up.
1KI 18:28 And they called out with a great voice, and mutilated themselves according to their custom with knives and by spears, until blood poured out of them.
1KI 18:29 And they prophesied until of which time it went into the midday. And it came to pass as the time of the midday to ascend for the sacrifice, that there was not a sound, and there was not a hearing anything.
1KI 18:30 And Elijah said to the people, Come forward to me! And all the people came forward to him. And he repaired the altar having been razed.
1KI 18:31 And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of Israel, as the LORD spoke to him, saying, Israel will be your name.
1KI 18:32 And he built the stones in the name of the LORD; and repaired the altar of the LORD, the one having been razed. And he made a sea, having the space of two measures of seed, round about the altar.
1KI 18:33 And he put the kindling upon the altar which he made. And he dismembered the whole burnt offering, and he put it upon the kindling, and piled it upon the altar. And Elijah said, Bring to me four water pitchers, and pour upon the whole burnt offering, and upon the kindling!
1KI 18:34 And he said, Repeat it a second time! And they repeated it a second time. And he said, Do it a third time! And they did it a third time.
1KI 18:35 And the water went round about the altar; and the sea filled with water.
1KI 18:36 And as it was time of the offering the sacrifice, and Elijah the prophet came, and said, O LORD God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Israel, today let it be known to all this people that you are the LORD God of Israel, and I am your servant, and through you I have done all these things!
1KI 18:37 Heed me, O LORD, heed me! And let this people know that you are the LORD God, and you turned the heart of this people back!
1KI 18:38 And fire fell from the LORD from out of the heaven, and it devoured the whole burnt offering, and the kindling, and the water in the sea, and the stones, and the dust was licked up by the fire.
1KI 18:39 And all the people saw, and fell upon their face. And they said, Truly, the LORD is God. The LORD, he is God.
1KI 18:40 And Elijah said to the people, Seize the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape! And they seized them. And Elijah led them down unto the rushing stream Kishon, and slew them there.
1KI 18:41 And Elijah said to Ahab, Ascend and eat and drink! For it is the sound of the noise of the rain.
1KI 18:42 And Ahab ascended to eat and to drink. And Elijah ascended unto Carmel; and he bowed upon the ground, and put his face between his knees.
1KI 18:43 And he said to his servant-lad, Ascend, and look the way of the sea! And the servant-lad ascended and looked. And he said, There is nothing. And Elijah said, Return seven times!
1KI 18:44 And it came to pass in the seventh time, and behold, a small cloud, as the sole of a man's foot, came with water from the sea. And he said, Ascend and say to Ahab! Team up your chariot, and go down, lest the rain should overtake you!
1KI 18:45 And it happened from here and here, and the heaven darkened with clouds and wind, and there became a great rain. And Ahab rode horseback, and went unto Jezreel.
1KI 18:46 And the hand of the LORD came upon Elijah, and he fastened his loin, and ran in front of Ahab unto Jezreel.
1KI 19:1 And Ahab announced to Jezebel all as much as Elijah did, and as to kill the prophets by the broadsword.
1KI 19:2 And Jezebel sent to Elijah, and said, Thus may the gods do to me, and thus may they add, that this hour tomorrow I shall put your life as the life of one of them.
1KI 19:3 And Elijah feared, and rose up, and went forth for his life. And he came into Beersheba of Judah, and left his servant-lad there.
1KI 19:4 And he went by the wilderness way a day, and came and stayed underneath a broom shrub. And he asked for his life to die; and said, It is fit; now, O LORD, take indeed my life from me! For I am not better than my fathers.
1KI 19:5 And he bedded down and slept there under a plant. And behold, a certain angel touched him, and said to him, Rise up and eat!
1KI 19:6 And he looked, and behold, by his head was a cake baked in hot ashes of oaten bread, and a jar of water. And Elijah rose up and ate and drank, and returned and went to bed.
1KI 19:7 And the angel of the LORD returned a second time, and touched him, and said to him, Rise up, eat! For the journey is great for you.
1KI 19:8 And he rose up, and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights unto mount Horeb.
1KI 19:9 And he entered there into the cave, and rested up there; and behold, a word of the LORD came to him, and said, Why are you here, Elijah?
1KI 19:10 And Elijah said, Being zealous, I am zealous for the LORD almighty. For the sons of Israel abandoned you, your altar they razed, and your prophets they killed by the broadsword, and I alone am left, and they seek my life to take it.
1KI 19:11 And he said, You shall go forth, and stand before the LORD in the mountain! And behold, the LORD will go by. And there was a great strong wind parting the mountains, and breaking rocks before the LORD - the LORD was not in the wind. And after the wind a rumbling - the LORD was not in the rumbling.
1KI 19:12 And after the rumbling a fire - the LORD was not in the fire. And after the fire a sound of a fine breeze - and there was the LORD.
1KI 19:13 And it came to pass, as Elijah heard, that he covered over his face with his sheepskin, and went forth, and stood by the cave. And behold, before him was a voice, and said, Why are you here, Elijah?
1KI 19:14 And Elijah said, Being zealous, I am zealous for the LORD God almighty. For the sons of Israel abandoned your covenant, your altars they razed, and your prophets they killed by the broadsword, and I alone am left, and they seek my life to take it.
1KI 19:15 And the LORD said to him, Go, return to your journey! And you shall come unto the way of the wilderness of Damascus; and you shall anoint Hazael as king over Syria.
1KI 19:16 And Jehu son of Nimshi you shall anoint as king over Israel. And Elisha son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint as prophet instead of you.
1KI 19:17 And it will be the one being delivered from the broadsword of Hazael, Jehu shall put to death. And the one being delivered from the broadsword of Jehu, Elisha shall put to death.
1KI 19:18 And I shall leave behind in Israel seven thousand men, all knees which bend not the knee to Baal, and every mouth which does not do obeisance to him.
1KI 19:19 And he went forth from there, and finds Elisha son of Shaphat, and he was plowing with oxen - twelve teams were before him, and he was among the twelve. And Elijah went forth unto Elisha, and tossed upon him his sheepskin.
1KI 19:20 And Elisha left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, I shall kiss my father and my mother, and I shall follow after you. And he said to him, Go, return! For I have done it to you.
1KI 19:21 And he returned from following after him, and took the teams of oxen, and sacrificed, and cooked them with the equipment of the oxen, and gave to the people, and they ate. And he rose up, and went after Elijah, and ministered to him.
1KI 20:1 And the son of Hadad king of Syria gathered together all his force, and thirty-two kings with him, and horses and chariots. And they ascended, and laid siege against Samaria, and waged war against it.
1KI 20:2 And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel, into the city, and said to him, Thus says the son of Hadad.
1KI 20:3 Your silver and your gold is mine; and your wives and your children - the best is mine.
1KI 20:4 And the king of Israel answered and said, As you have spoken, O my master, O king, I am yours, and all my things.
1KI 20:5 And the messengers returned and said, Thus says the son of Hadad, I have sent to you, saying, Your silver, and your gold, and your wives, and your children, you shall give to me;
1KI 20:6 for this hour tomorrow I will send my servants to you, and they will search your house, and the houses of your servants. And it will be that all the desires of their eyes, of what ever they should put upon with their hands, they shall take.
1KI 20:7 And the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, Know indeed, and behold! that this one seeks evil; for he has sent to me for my wives, and for my children, and my silver, and my gold; I have not kept back from him.
1KI 20:8 And the elders and all the people said to him, You should not hearken, and you should not want.
1KI 20:9 And he said to the messengers of the son of Hadad, Say to your master! All as much as you sent to your servant at first, I will do; but this thing I shall not be able to do. And the men departed, and returned to him the word.
1KI 20:10 And the son of Hadad sent to him saying, Thus may the gods do to me, and thus may they add, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls to all the people, to my footmen.
1KI 20:11 And the king of Israel answered and said, Let that be enough! Let not the humpback boast as the one standing straight!
1KI 20:12 And it came to pass, when he answered to him this word, as he drinking was, and all the kings with him in tents, that he said to his servants, Build a siege mound! And they put a siege mound against the city.
1KI 20:13 And behold, one prophet came forward to Ahab king of Israel, and said, Thus says the LORD, Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I give it today into your hands; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
1KI 20:14 And Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus says the LORD, By the young men of the rulers of the regions. And Ahab said, Who shall join together for the war? And he said, You.
1KI 20:15 And Ahab numbered the servants of the rulers of the regions, and they were two hundred thirty and two. And after these things he numbered the people, every son of power - seven thousand.
1KI 20:16 And he went forth at midday. And the son of Hadad was drinking and being intoxicated in Succoth, he and the kings - thirty and two kings, the allies with him.
1KI 20:17 And came forth the young men, the rulers of the regions at first. And the son of Hadad sent, and they led up to him, saying, Men have come forth from out of Samaria.
1KI 20:18 And he said to them, If in peace they come forth, seize them alive! And if for war they came forth, seize them alive!
1KI 20:19 And the young men went forth from the city of the rulers of the regions, and the force after them.
1KI 20:20 And each man struck the one by him. And Syria fled; and Israel pursued them. And the son of Hadad king of Syria escaped upon a horse of a horseman.
1KI 20:21 And the king of Israel came forth, and took the horses, and the chariots, and struck a great calamity against Syria.
1KI 20:22 And the prophet came forward to the king of Israel, and said, Strengthen yourself, and know, and see what you shall do! For returning during the year, the son of Hadad king of Syria will ascend against you.
1KI 20:23 And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, The God of mountains is the God of Israel, and not a God of valleys; on account of this they powered over us; but if we wage war against them according to the straight plains, assuredly we shall power over them.
1KI 20:24 And this thing you do! Let the kings each depart to their place, and establish satraps in place of them!
1KI 20:25 And you exchange according to the force falling from you - even horse for horse, and chariots for chariots! And we will wage war against them in the straight plains, and we will power over them. And he hearkened to their voice, and did thus.
1KI 20:26 And it came to pass at the return of the year, that the son of Hadad mustered Syria, and ascended into Aphek for war against Israel.
1KI 20:27 And the sons of Israel were mustered, and came to meet them. And Israel camped right opposite them, as two flocks of goats. And Syria filled the land.
1KI 20:28 And came forward a man of God, and said to the king of Israel, Thus says the LORD, Because Syria said, the LORD God of Israel is God of the mountains, and he is not God of the valleys, that I will give this great force into your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
1KI 20:29 And these camped before those seven days. And it came to pass in the seventh day that the war led on. And Israel struck Syria - a hundred thousand footmen in one day.
1KI 20:30 And the rest fled unto Aphek, into the city. And the wall fell upon twenty and seven thousand men of the ones remaining. And the son of Hadad fled, and he entered into the house of the bedroom, into the inner chamber.
1KI 20:31 And his servants said to him, Indeed behold we heard that the kings of the house of Israel are kings of mercy. We should place indeed sackcloths upon our loins, and rough cords upon our heads, and we should go forth to the king of Israel; if by any means he shall bring forth alive our lives.
1KI 20:32 And they girded sackcloths upon their loins, and put rough cords upon their heads. And they said to the king of Israel, Your servant, the son of Hadad says, Let my soul indeed live! And he said, Does he still live? he is my brother.
1KI 20:33 And the men foretold, and hastened, and gathered up the word out of his mouth, and said, Your brother the son of Hadad. And he said, Enter, and receive him! And the son of Hadad came forth to him; and they transported him upon the chariot to him.
1KI 20:34 And he said to him, The cities which my father took from your father, I give back to you; and you shall establish streets in Damascus for yourself, as my father established in Samaria. And Ahab said, I by covenant shall send you out. And he ordained with him a covenant, and sent him out.
1KI 20:35 And one man of the sons of the prophets said to his neighbor, by a word of the LORD, Strike me indeed! And the man would not strike him.
1KI 20:36 And he said to him, Because you hearkened not to the voice of the LORD, behold, as you run from me, a lion shall strike you. And he went forth from him, and a lion found him, and struck him.
1KI 20:37 And he finds another man, and he said, Strike indeed me! And the man struck him, and striking he broke him.
1KI 20:38 And the prophet went and stood to the king of Israel upon the way, and bound his eyes with a ligature.
1KI 20:39 And it came to pass as the king came near, that he yelled out to the king. And he said, Your servant went forth with the military for war, and behold, a man brought to me another man, and he said to me, Guard this man! And if by rushing away he should rush away, then your life will be required for his life, or a talent of silver you establish for it.
1KI 20:40 And it came to pass as your servant looked round about here this way and here that way, that this man was not around. And the king of Israel said to him, Behold, you did as magistrate, you murdered for me.
1KI 20:41 And he hastened and removed the ligature from his eyes. And the king of Israel recognized him that this one was of the prophets.
1KI 20:42 And he said to him, Thus says the LORD, For you sent out a pernicious man to escape from out of your hand, even your life will be required for his life, and your people for his people.
1KI 20:43 And the king of Israel went forth being confounded and faint, and came unto Samaria.
1KI 21:1 And it came to pass after these words, that there was one vineyard to Naboth the Jezreelite, by the house of Ahab king of Samaria.
1KI 21:2 And Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give to me your vineyard, and it will be to me for a garden of vegetables! For this is near my house, and I will give to you in place of it another good vineyard for it; but if it is not pleasing before you, I will give to you money in barter for this your vineyard.
1KI 21:3 And Naboth said to Ahab, May it not be to me from the LORD to give the inheritance of my fathers to you.
1KI 21:4 And Ahab went to his house being in a tumult and loosened over the word which Naboth the Jezreelite spoke to him, as he said, I will not give to you the inheritance of my fathers to you. And the spirit of Ahab became disturbed, and he went to sleep upon his bed, and covered up his face, and did not eat bread.
1KI 21:5 And Jezebel his wife entered to him, and said to him, Why is your spirit disturbed, and you are not eating bread?
1KI 21:6 And he said to her, For I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, saying, Give to me your vineyard for money! But if you do not want, I will give to you a vineyard in place of it. And he said, I will not give to you the inheritance of my fathers.
1KI 21:7 And Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you now so act as king over Israel? Rise up, and eat bread, and be yourself! And I will give to you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.
1KI 21:8 And she wrote upon a scroll the name of Ahab, and set seal by his seal, and sent the scroll to the elders, and to the free men dwelling with Naboth.
1KI 21:9 And she wrote in the scroll, saying, Fast a fast, and set Naboth at the head place of the people!
1KI 21:10 And seat two men, sons of lawbreakers, right opposite him! And let them bear witness against him! saying, You raved against God and king. And let them lead him out and stone him, and let him die!
1KI 21:11 And they did (the men of his city, the elders, and the free men dwelling in his city) as Jezebel sent to them, and as was written in the scrolls which she sent to them.
1KI 21:12 And they called a fast, and they sat Naboth at the head of the people.
1KI 21:13 And two men entered, sons of lawbreakers, and they sat right opposite him, and bore witness against him, saying, He raved against God and king. And they led him outside the city, and they stoned him with stones, and he died.
1KI 21:14 And they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth has been stoned, and died.
1KI 21:15 And it came to pass, as Jezebel heard the ones saying, Naboth has been stoned, and has died, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Rise up, inherit the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite! For he did not give it to you for money, for Naboth is not living, but has died.
1KI 21:16 And it came to pass, as Ahab heard that Naboth has died, Ahab rose and went down into the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to inherit it.
1KI 21:17 And the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
1KI 21:18 Rise up, and go down for meeting Ahab king of Israel, in Samaria! Behold, this one is in the vineyard of Naboth, for he went down there to inherit it.
1KI 21:19 And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the LORD, You murdered and inherited. Therefore thus says the LORD, In the place where the dogs licked the blood of Naboth, there the dogs shall lick your blood.
1KI 21:20 And Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? And he said, I have found you, for you sell yourself in folly to act wickedly before the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
1KI 21:21 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I bring upon you evils, and I will burn away after you, and will utterly destroy of Ahab the one urinating against the wall, and the one being constrained, and the one being left in Israelthe bond and free in Israel..
1KI 21:22 And I will appoint your house as the house of Jeroboam son of Nebat, and as the house of Baasha son of Ahijah, on account of the provocations which you provoke to anger, and led Israel into sin.
1KI 21:23 And to Jezebel the LORD spoke, saying, The dogs shall eat her in the area around the wall of Jezreel.
1KI 21:24 The one having died of Ahab in the city, the dogs will eat; and the one having died of his in the plain, the birds of the heaven will eat.
1KI 21:25 Furthermore there was not one as Ahab, who sold himself to do the wicked thing before the LORD, as Jezebel his wife altered him.
1KI 21:26 And he acted exceedingly abhorrent to go after the abominations, according to all as many things which the Amorite made, whom the LORD utterly destroyed from the face of the sons of Israel.
1KI 21:27 And it came to pass, as Ahab heard these words, he tore his inner-garment, and wore sackcloth upon his body, and fasted, and laid in sackcloth, and went having downcast eyes.
1KI 21:28 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Elijah the Tishbite, and said,
1KI 21:29 Have you seen that Ahab was vexed in front of me? Because he was vexed in front of me, I shall not bring the evil in his days; but only in the days of his son will I bring the evil upon his house.
1KI 22:1 And he stayed in place three years, and there was not war between Syria and between Israel.
1KI 22:2 And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat king of Judah went down to the king of Israel.
1KI 22:3 And the king of Israel said to his servants, Do you know that Ramoth Gilead is ours, and we keep silent to not take it from out of the hand of the king of Syria?
1KI 22:4 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Shall you not ascend with me unto Ramoth Gilead for war?
1KI 22:5 And Jehoshaphat said, As you, thus also I. As your people, thus also my people. As your horses, so also my horses. And Jehoshaphat king of Judah said to the king of Israel, Ask indeed today of the LORD.
1KI 22:6 And the king of Israel gathered together all the prophets, about four hundred men, and said to them, Shall I go unto Ramoth Gilead for war, or wait? And they said, Ascend! For by giving, the LORD shall give into the hands of the king.
1KI 22:7 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD, and we shall ask the LORD through him?
1KI 22:8 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Still there is one man for the asking the LORD through him, and I detest him, for he does not speak concerning me for good things, but only bad - Micaiah son of Imlah. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king speak so.
1KI 22:9 And the king of Israel called one eunuch, and said, Quickly bring Micaiah son of Imlah.
1KI 22:10 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat down each upon his throne, armed, at the threshing-floor gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied before them.
1KI 22:11 And Zedekiah son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron. And he said, Thus says the LORD, By these you shall gore the Syrian until whenever you finish them off entirely.
1KI 22:12 And all the prophets prophesied thus, saying, Ascend unto Ramoth Gilead, and your way shall prosper! and the LORD shall put into your hands the king of Syria.
1KI 22:13 And the messenger going to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, Behold indeed, all the prophets speak by one mouth good things concerning the king. Let it be indeed that you be with words according to the words of one of these, and speak good!
1KI 22:14 And Micaiah said, As the LORD lives, that what ever the LORD should say to me, these things I shall speak.
1KI 22:15 And he came to the king. And the king said to him, Micaiah, Shall I ascend to Ramoth Gilead for war, or wait? And he said to him, Ascend! And the LORD shall prosper the way in the hand of the king.
1KI 22:16 And the king said to him, How often shall I adjure you that you should speak to me the truth in the name of the LORD?
1KI 22:17 And Micaiah said thus, I see all Israel being scattered in the mountains as sheep in which there is not a shepherd. And the LORD said, There is not a lord to these, let each return to his house in peace!
1KI 22:18 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Said I not to you that this one prophesies not good things to me, but only bad?
1KI 22:19 And Micaiah said, On account of this hear the word of the LORD! I saw the LORD God of Israel sitting upon his throne, and all the military of the heaven standing about him at his right and at his left.
1KI 22:20 And the LORD said, Who shall deceive Ahab king of Israel, that he shall ascend in Ramoth Gilead, and shall fall there? And this one said thus, and this other one thus.
1KI 22:21 And a spirit came forth, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will deceive him.
1KI 22:22 And the LORD said to him, In what way? And he said, I shall go forth, and I shall be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, You shall deceive, and indeed you will be able. Go forth, and do so!
1KI 22:23 And now, behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets, and the LORD spoke against you bad things.
1KI 22:24 And Zedekiah son of Chenaanah came forward, and struck Micaiah upon the jaw, and said, What kind of spirit of the LORD departed from me to speak with you?
1KI 22:25 And Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see in that day, whenever you shall enter an inner chamber of the storeroom to hide.
1KI 22:26 And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and return him to Amon the ruler of the city, and to Joash son of the king!
1KI 22:27 And say, Thus says the king, Put him in prison, and let him eat bread of affliction and water of affliction until my return in peace!
1KI 22:28 And Micaiah said, If in returning, you should return in peace, the LORD spoke not by me. And he said, Let all the people hearken!
1KI 22:29 And the king of Israel ascended up, and Jehoshaphat king of Judah with him unto Ramoth Gilead.
1KI 22:30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, I shall cover up myself, and enter into the battle; and you put on my clothes! And the king of Israel covered himself up, and entered into the battle.
1KI 22:31 And the king of Syria gave charge to the rulers of his chariots - thirty and two, saying, Do not do battle against the small or great, but the king of Israel alone.
1KI 22:32 And it came to pass, as the ones in charge of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat king of Judah, that they said, It appears this one is the king of Israel. And they encircled him to do battle. And Jehoshaphat shouted aloud.
1KI 22:33 And it happened as the rulers of the chariots saw that this is not the king of Israel, that they turned away from him.
1KI 22:34 And one merely stretched tight the bow, and it struck the king of Israel between the lungs and between the chest plate. And he said to his charioteer, Turn your hand, and lead me out of the battle; for I have been wounded!
1KI 22:35 And the war turned in that day. And the king was set upon the chariot right opposite Syria, from morning until evening. And the blood poured out from the wound into the cavity of the chariot.
1KI 22:36 And the herald of the army stood in the camp until the going down of the sun, saying, Each to his own city, and each to his own land,
1KI 22:37 for the king has died. And they went unto Samaria, and they entombed the king in Samaria.
1KI 22:38 And they washed the blood from the chariot at the fountain of Samaria. And the dogs licked up the blood, and the harlots bathed in the blood, according to the saying of the LORD which he spoke.
1KI 22:39 And the rest of the words of Ahab, and all which he did, and the house of ivory which he built, and all the cities which he made, behold have not these been written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1KI 22:40 And Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 22:41 And Jehoshaphat son of Asa reigned over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.
1KI 22:42 And Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old in his taking reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Azubah daughter of Shilhi.
1KI 22:43 And he went in all the way of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, to do the upright in the eyes of the LORD. Furthermore the high places he did not lift away; for the people sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places.
1KI 22:44 And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.
1KI 22:45 And the rest of the words of Jehoshaphat, and his dominions which he had, behold are these not written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
1KI 22:46 And the rest of the ones being initiated of the things being forsaken in the days of Asa his father he removed from the land.
1KI 22:47 And a king was not established in Edom.
1KI 22:48 And Jehoshaphat prepared ships of Tarshish to go unto Ophir because of the gold; and they went not, for the ships were destroyed in Ezion Geber.
1KI 22:49 Then Ahaziah son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with your servants. And Jehoshaphat wanted it not.
1KI 22:50 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and they entombed him by his fathers in the city of David his forefather. And Jehoram his son reigned instead of him.
1KI 22:51 And Ahaziah son of Ahab reigned over Israel in Samaria. In the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Ahaziah son of Ahab reigned over Israel in Samaria two years.
1KI 22:52 And he acted wickedly before the LORD, and went in the way of Ahab his father, and in the way of Jezebel his mother, and in the sins of the house of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.
1KI 22:53 And he served to the Baalim, and did obeisance to them, and provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel, according to all what his father did.
2KI 1:1 And Moab annulled allegiance with Israel after the dying of Ahab.
2KI 1:2 And Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper room in Samaria, and was infirm. And he sent for messengers, and said to them, Go and ask of Baal the fly god of Ekron if I shall live through this my infirmity! And they went to ask.
2KI 1:3 And an angel of the LORD spoke to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Rise up, go to meet the messengers of Ahaziah king of Samaria, and say to them! Is it on account of the not being a God in Israel you go to ask of Baal the fly god of Ekron?
2KI 1:4 On account of this thus says the LORD, The bed upon which you ascended upon it, you shall not go from it, for to death you shall die. And Elijah went, and spoke to them.
2KI 1:5 And the messengers returned to him. And he said to them, Why is it that you have returned?
2KI 1:6 And they said to him, A man ascended to meet us, and he said to us, Go, return to the king sending you, and say to him! Thus says the LORD, Is it because there is no God in Israel you go to seek anxiously by Baal the fly god of Ekron? On account of this, the bed upon which you ascended upon it you shall not go from it, for to death you shall die.
2KI 1:7 And the king said to them, What was the distinguishing mark of the man ascending to meet you, and speaking to you these words?
2KI 1:8 And they said to him, He was a hairy man, and a belt made of skin was girded upon his loin. And he said, This is Elijah the Tishbite.
2KI 1:9 And he sent to him a commander of fifty, and his fifty. And he ascended to him. And Elijah himself sat upon the top of the mountain. And the commander of fifty spoke to him, O man of God, the king calls you, Come down!
2KI 1:10 And Elijah answered and said to the commander of fifty, And if I am a man of God, fire shall come down from out of the heaven, and shall devour you and your fifty. And there came down fire from out of the heaven, and devoured him and his fifty.
2KI 1:11 And the king proceeded, and he sent to him another commander of fifty, and his fifty. And the commander of fifty ascended and spoke to him, and said, O man of God, thus says the king, Quickly come down!
2KI 1:12 And Elijah answered and said to him, If I am a man of God, fire shall come down from out of the heaven, and shall devour you and your fifty. And there came down fire from out of the heaven and devoured him and his fifty.
2KI 1:13 And the king proceeded again to send a third commander of fifty and his fifty. And the third commander of fifty came, and bent upon his knees in front of Elijah, and beseeched him, and spoke to him, and said, O man of God, value indeed my life, and the lives of your servants - these fifty, in your eyes!
2KI 1:14 Behold, there came down fire from out of the heaven, and devoured the first two commanders of fifties and their fifties. And now value indeed the life of your servants in your eyes!
2KI 1:15 And the angel of the LORD said to Elijah, Go down with him; you should not fear from their presence. And Elijah rose up, and went down with them to the king.
2KI 1:16 And he said to him, Thus says the LORD, Because you sent messengers to ask to Baal the fly god of Ekron, as if there was not a God in Israel to ask the word of him, on account of this the bed upon which you ascended upon it, you shall not go down from it, for in death you shall die.
2KI 1:17 And he died according to the saying of the LORD which Elijah spoke. And Joram the brother of Ahaziah reigned instead of him, (for there was not a son to him,) in the second year of Joram son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah.
2KI 1:18 And the rest of the words of Ahaziah, as many things as he did - behold are not these written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 2:1 And it came to pass in the LORD to lead Elijah in a rumbling as into the heaven, that Elijah and Elisha went from out of Gilgal.
2KI 2:2 And Elijah said to Elisha, Sit down indeed here! For the LORD has sent me unto Beth-el. And Elisha said, As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, shall I abandon you? And they came unto Beth-el.
2KI 2:3 And the sons of the prophets in Beth-el came to Elisha. And they said to him, Do you know that the LORD today takes your master above your head? And he said, Indeed even I knew, keep silent!
2KI 2:4 And Elijah said to Elisha, Sit down indeed here! For the LORD has sent me to Jericho. And Elisha said, As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, shall I abandon you? And they came unto Jericho.
2KI 2:5 And the sons of the prophets in Jericho approached to Elisha. And they said to him, Do you know that today the LORD takes your master from above your head? And he said, I knew, keep silent!
2KI 2:6 And Elijah said to him, Sit down indeed here! For the LORD has sent me unto the Jordan. And Elisha said, As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, shall I abandon you? And they both went.
2KI 2:7 And fifty men from the sons of the prophets came, and stood right opposite far off. And both stood at the Jordan.
2KI 2:8 And Elijah took his sheepskin, and wrapped it, and struck the water, and the water was divided here and there, and they both passed over through dry ground.
2KI 2:9 And it came to pass, in their passing over, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask! What I shall do for you before my being taken up from you. And Elisha said, Let there be indeed a double of your spirit upon me!
2KI 2:10 And Elijah said, You hardened to ask. If you should behold me being taken up from you, it will be thus to you; but if not, in no way will it be.
2KI 2:11 And it came to pass, of their going and speaking, that behold - a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and they drew apart between both; and Elijah was taken up in a rumbling unto into the heaven.
2KI 2:12 And Elisha was beholding, and he yelled, O father, O father, the chariot of Israel, and his horseman. And he did not see him any longer. And he took hold of his garments, and tore them into two.
2KI 2:13 And he raised up high the sheepskin of Elijah which fell on top of him. And Elisha turned, and stood upon the edge of the Jordan;
2KI 2:14 And he took the sheepskin of Elijah which fell on top of him, and struck the waters, and said, Where is the God of Elijah now? And he struck the waters, and they tore apart here and there - and Elisha passed over.
2KI 2:15 And the sons of the prophets beheld him, the ones in Jericho right opposite. And they said, The spirit of Elijah rests upon Elisha. And they came to meet with him, and did obeisance to him upon the ground.
2KI 2:16 And they said to him, Behold indeed, there are with your servants fifty men, sons of power. In going indeed, let them seek your master, lest at some time spirit of the LORD lifted him, and tossed him in the mountains, or upon one of the hills! And Elisha said, You shall not send.
2KI 2:17 And they pressed him until he was shamed. And he said, Send them! And they sent fifty men; and they sought three days, and they did not find him.
2KI 2:18 And they returned to him. And he stayed in Jericho. And he said to them, Said I not to you, Do not go?
2KI 2:19 And the men of the city said to Elisha, Behold now, the site of the city is good, as you, O master, see; but the waters are bad, and the ground being barren.
2KI 2:20 And Elisha said, Bring to me a new water-pot, and cast salt there! And they took it to him.
2KI 2:21 And he went forth unto the outlet of the waters, and he tossed there the salt. And he said, Thus says the LORD, I have healed these waters, there will not be any longer there death and being barren.
2KI 2:22 And the waters were healed until this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spoke.
2KI 2:23 And he ascended from there unto Beth-el. And in his ascending in the way, that small boys came forth from out of the city, and they mocked him, and said to him, Ascend, bald one! Ascend, bald one!
2KI 2:24 And he turned aside behind them, and beheld them. And he cursed them in the name of the LORD. And two bears came forth from out of the forest, and they tore asunder of them forty and two children.
2KI 2:25 And he went from there to mount Carmel, and from there he turned unto Samaria.
2KI 3:1 And Joram son of Ahab reigned in Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve years.
2KI 3:2 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD; only not as his father, and his mother. And he removed the monuments of Baal which his father made.
2KI 3:3 Except in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin, he cleaved; he did not abstain from it.
2KI 3:4 And Mesha king of Moab was a shepherd, and he restored to the king of Israel a hundred thousand lambs, and a hundred thousand rams with fleece.
2KI 3:5 And it came to pass, after the dying of Ahab, Moab annulled allegiance with the king of Israel.
2KI 3:6 And king Joram went forth in that day from out of Samaria, and he numbered Israel.
2KI 3:7 And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, saying, The king of Moab annulled allegiance with me. Shall you go with me unto Moab for war? And he said, I will go - likened to you, likened to me; as your people, so my people; as your horses, so my horses.
2KI 3:8 And he said, What way shall we ascend? And he said, The way of the wilderness of Edom.
2KI 3:9 And the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of Edom. And they encircled a journey of seven days. And there was not water for the camp, and for the cattle at their feet.
2KI 3:10 And the king of Israel said, O that the LORD called these three kings to deliver them up into the hand of Moab.
2KI 3:11 And Jehoshaphat said to him, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD, that we should seek anxiously the LORD by him? And answered one of the servants of the king of Israel and said, Elisha son of Shaphat is here, who poured water upon the hands of Elijah.
2KI 3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the LORD is with him. And the king of Israel went down to him, and Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and the king of Edom.
2KI 3:13 And Elisha said to the king of Israel, What is there between me and you? Go to the prophets of your father, and to the prophets of your mother. And the king of Israel said to him, Is it that the LORD calls these three kings, to deliver them into the hands of Moab?
2KI 3:14 And Elisha said, As the LORD of the forces lives, in whom I stand before him, that if it were not the face of Jehoshaphat king of Judah which I receive, shall I have looked upon you or beheld you?
2KI 3:15 And now bring to me one for strumming! And it came to pass as the one strumming strummed, that the hand of the LORD came upon him.
2KI 3:16 And he said, Thus says the LORD, Make this dry stream cistern upon cistern.
2KI 3:17 For thus says the LORD, You shall not see wind, and you shall not see rain; but this dry stream shall be filled with water, and you shall drink, you and your possessions, and your cattle.
2KI 3:18 But it is a light thing in the eyes of the LORD. And I will deliver up Moab into your hands.
2KI 3:19 And you shall strike every fortified city, and every choice city; and every good tree you shall throw down; and all springs of water you shall obstruct, and every good portion of land you shall make useless with stones.
2KI 3:20 And it came to pass in the morning of the ascending of the sacrifice, that behold, waters came from out of the way of Edom, and the land was filled of the waters.
2KI 3:21 And all Moab heard that the kings ascended to wage war against them, and they yelled out from all sides girding on a belt, and went forward, and stood at the border.
2KI 3:22 And they rose early in the morning, and the sun rose upon the waters. And Moab beheld the waters right opposite fiery red as blood.
2KI 3:23 And they said, This is blood of a broadsword. The kings did combat, and each man struck his neighbor. And now, the spoils are for Moab.
2KI 3:24 And they entered into the camp of Israel, and Israel rose up and struck Moab, and they fled in front of them; and they entered going and beating Moab.
2KI 3:25 And they demolished the cities, and every good portion of land each man tossed his stone, and filled it. And every spring of water they obstructed, and every good tree they threw down; unto leaving behind the stones of the wall being demolished. And the slingers encircled, and struck it.
2KI 3:26 And the king of Moab beheld that the battle overpowered him, and he took with himself seven hundred men unsheathing the broadsword to cut through to the king of Edom - but they were not able.
2KI 3:27 And he took his first-born son whom he gave reign instead of him, and offered him as a whole burnt offering upon the wall. And came to pass a great repentance in Israel. And they departed from him, and returned to the land.
2KI 4:1 And one wife of the sons of the prophets yelled to Elisha, saying, Your servant, my husband died, and you know that your servant was fearing the LORD. And the money-lender came to take my two sons for servants to himself.
2KI 4:2 And Elisha said to her, What should I do for you, announce it to me? What is there to you in the house? And she said, There is not to your maidservant one thing in the house, only a vessel of olive oil in the house which I anoint with.
2KI 4:3 And he said to her, Go, you ask for yourself vessels from outside, from all your neighbors - empty vessels, not a few!
2KI 4:4 And you shall enter, and lock the door after you and after your sons, and shall pour out into these vessels, and the one being filled you shall take away.
2KI 4:5 And she went forth from him, and did thus. And she locked the door after herself and after her sons. And they drew near to her; and she poured until the vessels were filled.
2KI 4:6 And she said to her sons, Bring near to me a vessel! And they said to her, There is not yet a vessel. And the olive oil stopped.
2KI 4:7 And she came and reported to the man of God. And he said to her, Go, and render the olive oil for sale, and pay your interest, and you and your sons shall live by the rest!
2KI 4:8 And a day came, and Elisha passed over into Shunem. And there was a great woman there; and she took hold of him to eat bread. And it came to pass whenever it was fit for him to enter, that he turned aside there to eat bread.
2KI 4:9 And the woman said to her husband, Behold indeed, I know that this is a holy man of God, who travels unto us continually.
2KI 4:10 We should indeed make for him a small upper room; and we should put for him there a bed, and a table, and a chair, and a lamp-stand. And it will be in his coming to us, that he shall turn aside there.
2KI 4:11 And a day came, and he entered there, and he turned aside into the upper room, and went to bed there.
2KI 4:12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite! And he called her, and she stood before him.
2KI 4:13 And he said to him, Say indeed to her, Behold, you startled us all with this change of state, what shall we do for you? Is there to you a word to say to the king, or to the ruler of the force? And she said, I dwell in the midst of my people.
2KI 4:14 And he said to Gehazi, What must be done for her? And Gehazi said, That by all means a son is not to her, and her husband is old.
2KI 4:15 And he said, Call her! And he called her, and she stood by the door.
2KI 4:16 And Elisha said to her, At this time next year, about this hour, and living, you shall be holding a son. But she said, No, O master, O man of God, you should not disappoint your maidservant.
2KI 4:17 And the woman conceived, and bore a son at this same time about the same hour living, as Elisha spoke to her.
2KI 4:18 And the boy matured. And it came to pass the boy went forth to his father, to the ones harvesting.
2KI 4:19 And he said to his father, My head, my head. And he said to the servant, Carry him to his mother.
2KI 4:20 And he lifted him, and he carried him in to his mother, and laid him down to rest upon her knees until midday, and he died.
2KI 4:21 And she bore him, and rested him upon the bed of the man of God, and locked after him, and went forth.
2KI 4:22 And she called her husband, and said, Send indeed for me one of the servants, and one of the donkeys, and I shall run unto the man of God, and I shall return.
2KI 4:23 And he said, Why is it that you should go to him today? It is not a new moon, nor a Sabbath. And she said, Peace.
2KI 4:24 And she saddled the donkey, and said to her servant, You lead, and go! Do not wait for me to mount. For if I said to you, Go, then you shall go, and shall come to the man of God in mount Carmel.
2KI 4:25 And she went, and came unto the man of God in the mountain. And it came to pass as the man of God saw her right opposite, that he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, that Shunammite.
2KI 4:26 Now run to meet her! And you shall say to her, Is peace to you? Is peace to your husband? Is peace to the boy? And she said, Peace.
2KI 4:27 And she straightened to the man of God in the mountain, and she seized his feet. And Gehazi approached to thrust her away, and the man of God said to him, Allow her! For her soul severely pains her, and the LORD concealed it from me, and announced it not to me.
2KI 4:28 And she said, Did I ask a son from my master? Did I not say, Do not mislead with me?
2KI 4:29 And Elisha said to Gehazi, Tie up your loin, and take my staff in your hand, and go! And if you should find a man in the way, you shall not bless him; and if a man should bless you, you shall not answer him; and you shall place my staff upon the face of the boy.
2KI 4:30 And the mother of the boy said, As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, shall I leave you behind? And Elisha rose up, and went after her.
2KI 4:31 And Gehazi went in front of them, and placed the staff upon the face of the boy; and there was not a sound, and there was not a hearing anything. And he returned to meet him, and he reported to him, saying, the boy was not arisen.
2KI 4:32 And Elisha entered into the house, and behold, the boy having died was resting upon his bed.
2KI 4:33 And Elisha entered, and locked the door after the two of them. And he prayed to the LORD.
2KI 4:34 And he ascended, and bedded down upon the boy, and put his mouth upon his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands. And he bent upon him, and warmed through the flesh of the boy.
2KI 4:35 And he returned, and went about the house this side and that side, and he ascended, and bent downwards upon the boy for seven times. And the boy opened his eyes.
2KI 4:36 And Elisha yelled out loud to Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite! And he called her, and she entered to him. And Elisha said, Receive your son!
2KI 4:37 And the woman entered, and fell at his feet, and did obeisance upon the ground, and took her son, and went forth.
2KI 4:38 And Elisha returned to Gilgal. And the famine was in the land; and the sons of the prophets sat down before him. And Elisha said to his servant, Stand by the great kettle, and boil stew for the sons of the prophets!
2KI 4:39 And he went forth into the field to collect together herbs. And he found a vine in the field, and he collected together from it a wild gourd to fill his cloak, and he entered and put it into the kettle of the stew - but they did not know.
2KI 4:40 And he poured out to the men to eat. And it came to pass in their eating from the stew, that they yelled out, and said, Death is in the kettle, O man of God. And they were not able to eat.
2KI 4:41 And he said, You take flour, and put it in the kettle! And they put. And Elisha said to Gehazi, Pour out to the people, and let them eat! And there was not a bad thing still in the kettle.
2KI 4:42 And a man came from out of Baal-Shalisha, and brought to the man of God first produce of twenty bread loaves of barley, and dried clusters of figs. And he said, Give them to the people, and let them eat!
2KI 4:43 And his minister said, What, should I give before this hundred men? And he said, Give to the people, and let them eat! For thus says the LORD, They shall eat, and shall leave over.
2KI 4:44 And they ate, and left behind according to the saying of the LORD.
2KI 5:1 And Naaman. the ruler of the force of the king of Syria, was a great man before his master, and being an admired person, for through him the LORD gave deliverance to Syria. And the man was mighty in strength, but leprous.
2KI 5:2 And the Syrians went forth in armed bands, and they captured from out of the land of Israel a small young woman; and she was in the presence of the wife of Naaman.
2KI 5:3 And she said to her lady, Ought that my master was in the presence of the prophet in Samaria, then he shall cure him from his leprosy.
2KI 5:4 And she entered and reported it to her master, and said, Thus and thus says the young woman from out of the land of Israel.
2KI 5:5 And the king of Syria said, Come, enter, and I will send out a scroll to the king of Israel! And he went, and took in his hand ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of apparels.
2KI 5:6 And he brought the scroll to the king of Israel, saying, And now when ever this scroll should come to you, behold, I sent to you Naaman my servant, and you shall cure him from his leprosy.
2KI 5:7 And it came to pass, as the king of Israel read the scroll, that he tore his garments, and said, Am I God, the one putting to death and restoring to life, that this one sends to me to cure a man from his leprosy? For besides, know and see that this one makes an excuse towards me.
2KI 5:8 And it came to pass as Elisha the man of God heard that the king tore his garments, that he sent to the king of Israel, saying, Why do you tear your garments? Let indeed Naaman come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel!
2KI 5:9 And Naaman came by horse and chariot, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha.
2KI 5:10 And Elisha sent to him a messenger, saying, In going, bathe in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall return to you, and you shall be cleansed.
2KI 5:11 And Naaman was enraged, and went forth, and said, Behold, I said, he will come forth to me, and shall stand, and call in the name of the LORD his God, and shall place his hand upon the place, and shall cure the leper.
2KI 5:12 Are not the Abana and Phaphar rivers of Damascus good over the Jordan, and all the waters of Israel? Shall I not go bathe in them, and be cleansed? And he turned aside, and went forth in rage.
2KI 5:13 And his servants approached, and said to him, If the prophet spoke a great word to you, would you not have done in so far as he said to you? Bathe and be cleansed!
2KI 5:14 And Naaman went down, and immersed in the Jordan seven times, according to the word of the man of God. And his flesh returned as the flesh of a small boy, and he was cleansed.
2KI 5:15 And he returned to the man of God, he and his camp, and came, and stood before him; and he said, Behold, now I know that there is not a God in all the earth, but only in Israel. And now, receive a blessing from your servant!
2KI 5:16 And Elisha said, As the LORD lives in whom I stand before him, shall I take it? And he pressed him to take, but he resisted persuasion.
2KI 5:17 And Naaman said, And if not, let there be given indeed to your servant a cargo team of mules of earth, for your servant shall not offer any longer a whole burnt offering and sacrifice to other gods; but only to the LORD alone.
2KI 5:18 And concerning this matter, the LORD shall deal kindly with me, to your servant in the entering of my master into the house of Rimmon to do obeisance there, for he shall rest upon my hand. And I shall do obeisance in the house of Rimmon, in his doing obeisance in the house of Rimmon. And the LORD shall deal kindly with me to your servant over this matter.
2KI 5:19 And Elisha said to Naaman, Go in peace! And he went forth from him into the land of Havratha.
2KI 5:20 And said Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, Behold, my master spared Naaman this Syrian, so as to not take from his hand of what he brought. As lives the LORD, that I shall run after him, and I shall take something from him.
2KI 5:21 And Gehazi pursued after Naaman. And Naaman saw him running after him, and he leaped down from the chariot for meeting him. And he said, Peace.
2KI 5:22 And Gehazi said, Peace. My master has sent me, saying, Behold, now there came to me two young men from out of mount Ephraim, from the sons of the prophets. Give indeed to them a talent of silver and two changes of apparel!
2KI 5:23 And Naaman said, Take two talents of silver! And he forced him, and he took to him two talents of silver in two purses, and two changes of apparel. And he gave unto his two servants, and they carried them in front of him.
2KI 5:24 And he came to a dark place, and took from their hands, and he placed them in the house, and sent out the men, and they left.
2KI 5:25 And he entered, and stood before his master. And Elisha said to him. From what place did you come from Gehazi? And Gehazi said, Your servant went not here or there.
2KI 5:26 And Elisha said to him, Did not my heart go with you when the man turned from his chariot for meeting you? And now, you took the silver, and the garments, and shall you take with it gardens, and olive groves, and vineyards, and flocks, and herds, and bondmen and bondwomen?
2KI 5:27 And the leprosy of Naaman shall cleave to you, and among your seed into the eon. And he went forth from his face being leprous as snow.
2KI 6:1 And the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, Behold, indeed the place in which we live before you is scant for us.
2KI 6:2 We should go indeed unto the Jordan, and we should take from there one beam per one man, and we should make for ourselves a shelter to live there. And he said, Go!
2KI 6:3 And one said, Please come with your servants. And he said, I will go.
2KI 6:4 And he went with them. And they came unto the Jordan, and they trimmed the wood.
2KI 6:5 And it happened to one casting down the beam, that the iron implement fell off of the stick into the water; and he yelled, and said, O master. And it was hidden.
2KI 6:6 And the man of God said, Where did it fall? And he showed to him the place. And he plucked off wood, and tossed it there, and the iron implement floated.
2KI 6:7 And he said, Raise it to yourself! And he stretched out his hand and took it.
2KI 6:8 And the king of Syria was waging war against Israel, and consulted with his servants, saying, In the place thus I will camp in a certain concealed place.
2KI 6:9 And the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, Guard to not go by this place, for there Syria hides.
2KI 6:10 And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him. And he guarded from there not once nor twice.
2KI 6:11 And the soul of the king of Syria was startled on account of this word. And he called his servants, and said to them, Shall you not announce to me who betrays me to the king of Israel?
2KI 6:12 And one of his servants said, Not so, O my master, O king. For Elisha, the prophet in Israel, announces to the king of Israel all the words which ever you should speak in the closet of your bedroom.
2KI 6:13 And he said, Go and see where this one is! And sending I will take him. And they reported to him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.
2KI 6:14 And he sent horses, and chariots, and a heavy force. And they came at night, and surrounded the city.
2KI 6:15 And the minister of the man of God rose up early, and went forth. And behold, the force was encircling the city, and with horses and chariots. And his servant said to him, O master, what shall we do?
2KI 6:16 And Elisha said, Do not fear, for many are the ones with us over the ones with them.
2KI 6:17 And Elisha prayed, and said, O LORD, open his eyes, and let him see! And the LORD opened wide the eyes of the young man; and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses, and a chariot of fire surrounding Elisha.
2KI 6:18 And they came down to him, and Elisha prayed to the LORD, and said, Strike indeed this nation with inability to see! And he struck them with inability to see, according to the saying of Elisha.
2KI 6:19 And Elisha said to them, This is not the city, and this is not the way. Come after me, and I will lead you to the man whom you seek! And he took them to Samaria.
2KI 6:20 And it came to pass, as he entered into Samaria, that Elisha said, O LORD, open the eyes of these, and let them see! And the LORD opened wide their eyes, and they saw; and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria.
2KI 6:21 And the king of Israel said to Elisha, as he beheld them, Shall by striking, I strike them, O father?
2KI 6:22 And he said, You shall not strike. Whom you captured by your broadsword, and your bow you shall strike. Place bread loaves and water before them, and let them eat and let them drink, and let them go forth to their master!
2KI 6:23 And he placed for them a great fete. And they ate, and drank, and he sent them. And they went forth to their master. And the armed bands of Syrians did not proceed still to come into the land of Israel.
2KI 6:24 And it came to pass after these things, that the son of Hadad king of Syria gathered all his camp, and ascended, and besieged against Samaria.
2KI 6:25 And there was a great famine in Samaria. And behold, they laid siege against it until of which the head of a donkey was worth eighty shekels of silver; and a fourth of a cab of doves dung five shekels of silver.
2KI 6:26 And the king of Israel was traveling upon the wall. And a woman yelled to him, saying, Deliver us, O master, O king!
2KI 6:27 And he said to her, Unless the LORD delivers you, from what place shall I deliver you - from the threshing-floor, or from the wine vat?
2KI 6:28 And the king said to her, What is it with you? And she said, This woman said to me, Give your son, and we shall eat him today, and my son we shall eat tomorrow!
2KI 6:29 And we boiled my son, and we ate him. And I said to her the other day, Give your son, and we should eat him! And she hid her son.
2KI 6:30 And it came to pass as the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his garments, and he traveled over upon the wall. And the people saw the sackcloth upon his flesh inside.
2KI 6:31 And he said, Thus God do to me, and thus add more, if the head of Elisha son of Shaphat shall stand upon him today.
2KI 6:32 And Elisha was sitting down in his house, and the elders were sitting down with him. And the king sent a man before his face. But before the coming of the messenger to him, that Elisha himself said to the elders, Do you see that this son of a murderer sent to remove my head? Know as when the messenger should come, you lock the door, and press against him on the door! Is not the sound of the feet of his master right after him?
2KI 6:33 While he was speaking with them, that behold, the messenger came to him. And he said, Behold, this evil is from the LORD; why remain behind for the LORD any longer?
2KI 7:1 And Elisha said, Hear the word of the LORD! Thus says the LORD, At this same hour tomorrow, a measure of fine flour shall be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria.
2KI 7:2 And the tribune responded (upon whom the king rested upon his hand) to the man of God, and said, And if the LORD should make a torrent in the heaven, shall this thing be? And Elisha said, Behold, you shall see with your eyes, but you shall not eat from there.
2KI 7:3 And four men, lepers, were by the door of the city. And said one man to his neighbor, Why do we sit here until we die?
2KI 7:4 If we should say, We should enter into the city, and the famine is in the city, then we shall die there. And if we sit here, then we shall die. And now, come, and we shall fall into the camp of Syria. If they should bring us forth alive, then we shall live. And if they should kill us, then we shall die.
2KI 7:5 And they rose up in the darkness to enter into the camp of Syria. And they entered unto a part of the camp of Syria, and behold, there was not a man there.
2KI 7:6 For the LORD made audible in the camp of Syria a sound of chariots, and a sound of horses, and a sound of a great force. And each man said to his neighbor, Behold, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of Egypt, to come against us.
2KI 7:7 And they rose up, and ran away in the darkness. And they abandoned their tents, and their horses, and their donkeys, as was in the camp, and fled for their lives.
2KI 7:8 And these lepers came unto a part of the camp, and entered into one tent, and ate, and drank, and lifted from there silver, and gold, and clothes, and went forth and hid everything. And they returned and entered into another tent, and they took from there, and went forth and hid them.
2KI 7:9 And said one man to his neighbor, We are not thus doing right. This day is a day of good news, and we keep silent, and are waiting until light of the morning, and we shall find iniquity. Now then, come, we should go and announce to the house of the king.
2KI 7:10 And they entered and yelled by the gate of the city. And they announced to them, saying, We entered into the camp of Syria, and behold, there is not there a man nor a voice of a man, but only a horse being tied and a donkey being tied, and their tents as they are.
2KI 7:11 And they called the doorkeepers. And they announce to the house of the king inside.
2KI 7:12 And the king rose up in the night, and said to his servants, I shall report indeed to you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we hunger, and they went forth from out of the camp to hide in a field, saying, They shall come forth from out of the city, and we shall seize them alive, and shall enter into the city.
2KI 7:13 And answered one of his servants, and said, Let them take indeed five of the horses, of the ones being left behind, which they left behind here. Behold, they are for all the multitude of Israel faltering; for we will send there and see.
2KI 7:14 And they took two riders of horses; and the king of Israel sent them after Syria, saying, Go and see!
2KI 7:15 And they went after them unto the Jordan. And behold, all the way was full of clothes and items, which the Syrians tossed in their being distraught. And the messengers returned, and announced to the king.
2KI 7:16 And the people came forth, and tore in pieces the camp of Syria. And a measure of fine flour became worth a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the saying of the LORD.
2KI 7:17 And the king placed the tribune (upon whom the king rested upon his hand) over the gate. And the people trampled him at the gate, and he died as the man of God said, who spoke with the messenger coming down to him.
2KI 7:18 And it came to pass as Elisha said to the king, saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine flour for a shekel, and it will be at this hour tomorrow at the gate of Samaria.
2KI 7:19 And the tribune answered to the man of God, and said, And if the LORD should make a torrent in the heaven, shall this thing be? And the man of God said Behold, you will see with your eyes, but from there you will not eat.
2KI 7:20 And it came to pass thus; and the people trampled him at the gate, and he died.
2KI 8:1 And Elisha spoke to the woman of whom the son was enlivened, saying, Rise up and go, you and your household, and sojourn of which ever place you should want to sojourn! For the LORD has called a famine upon the land; and it will be at hand upon the land for seven years.
2KI 8:2 And the woman rose up, and did according to the saying of the man of God. And she went and her household, and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years.
2KI 8:3 And it came to pass after the end of the seven years, that the woman returned from out of the land of the Philistines. And she went to yell to the king on account of her house, and on account of her fields.
2KI 8:4 And the king spoke to Gehazi the servant of Elisha, the man of God, saying, Describe indeed to me all the great things which Elisha did!
2KI 8:5 And it came to pass, of his describing to the king of how he enlivened the son having died, that behold, the woman of whom he enlivened her son came yelling to the king concerning her house and concerning her fields. And Gehazi said, O master, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom Elisha enlivened.
2KI 8:6 And the king asked the woman, and she described to him. And the king appointed to her one eunuch, saying, Return all the things of hers, and all the offspring of her field from the day of which she left the land until the present.
2KI 8:7 And Elisha came unto Damascus. And the son of Hadad king of Syria was infirm. And they announced to him, saying, The man of God comes unto here.
2KI 8:8 And the king said to Hazael, Take in your hand a gift, and go for a meeting with the man of God, and seek anxiously of the LORD through him, saying, Shall I live from out of this my illness?
2KI 8:9 And Hazael went to meet him, and took a gift in his hand of all the good things of Damascus, a tribute of forty camels, and came and stood before him, and said, Your son, the son of Hadad king of Syria sent me to you, saying, Shall I live from out of this my illness?
2KI 8:10 And Elisha said to him, Go, say to him, To life you shall live! But the LORD showed to me that to death he shall die.
2KI 8:11 And Hazael stood in front of him, and he placed before him the gifts, until he was ashamed. And the man of God wept.
2KI 8:12 And Hazael said, Why is it that my master weeps? And he said that, I have beheld as many things as you shall do to the sons of Israel - bad things. You will send their fortresses up in fire, and their chosen ones you will kill by broadsword, and their infants you shall dash, and the ones of them having one in the womb you shall tear apart.
2KI 8:13 And Hazael said, What is your servant, the dog having died, that he will do this great thing? And Elisha said, The LORD showed to me you reigning over Syria.
2KI 8:14 And he went forth from Elisha, and came to his master. And he said to him, What said Elisha to you? And he said, He said to me, To life you shall live.
2KI 8:15 And it came to pass in the next day, and he took a rag, and he dipped it in water, and put it upon his face, and he died. And Hazael reigned instead of him.
2KI 8:16 In the fifth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel, Joram son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah reigned.
2KI 8:17 He was a son of thirty and two years old in his taking reign. And eight years he reigned in Jerusalem.
2KI 8:18 And he went in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab; - for the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did the wicked thing before the LORD.
2KI 8:19 And the LORD wanted not to corrupt Judah because of David his servant; as he said to give to him the lamp, and to his sons, all the days.
2KI 8:20 In his days Edom annulled allegiance from beneath the hand of Judah, and they gave reign to a king over themselves.
2KI 8:21 And Joram ascended into Zair, and all the chariots with him. And it happened as he rose up at night, that he struck Edom which was circling upon him. And the commanders of the chariots, and the people fled to its tents.
2KI 8:22 But Edom annulled allegiance from beneath the hand of Judah until this day. Then Libnah annulled allegiance in that time.
2KI 8:23 And the rest of the words of Joram, and all as much as he did, behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 8:24 And Joram slept with his fathers, and is entombed with his fathers in the city of David his forefather. And Ahaziah his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 8:25 In the twelfth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel Ahaziah son of Joram king of Judah reigned.
2KI 8:26 Ahaziah was a son of twenty and two years of age in his taking reign. And he reigned a year in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Athaliah, daughter of Omri king of Israel.
2KI 8:27 And he went in the way of the house of Ahab, and did the wicked thing before the LORD, as the house of Ahab - for he is son-in-law of the house of Ahab.
2KI 8:28 And he went with Joram son of Ahab to war against Hazael king of Syria in Ramoth Gilead; and the Syrians struck Joram.
2KI 8:29 And king Joram returned to be treated medically in Jezreel from the wounds of which the Syrians struck him in Ramoth Gilead, during his waging war against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah, son of Joram king of Judah went down to see Joram son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was infirm.
2KI 9:1 And Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets, and said to him, Tie up your loin, and take the flask of this oil in your hand, and be gone unto Ramoth Gilead!
2KI 9:2 And you shall enter there, and you shall see there Jehu son of Jehoshaphat son of Nimshi. And you shall enter, and you shall raise him from the midst of his brothers, and shall bring him into the closet of a storeroom.
2KI 9:3 And you shall take the flask of the oil, and you shall pour upon his head. And you shall say, Thus says the LORD, I have anointed you for king over Israel. And you shall open the door, and shall flee, and not wait.
2KI 9:4 And the young prophet went unto Ramoth Gilead.
2KI 9:5 And he entered, and behold, the commanders of the force were sitting down. And he said, A word from me to you, commander. And Jehu said, To whom of all of us? And he said, To you, commander.
2KI 9:6 And he rose up, and entered into the house. And he poured the oil upon his head. And he said to him, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, I have anointed you for king over the people of the LORD, over Israel.
2KI 9:7 And you shall utterly destroy the house of Ahab your master from my face, and you shall avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the LORD, at the hand of Jezebel,
2KI 9:8 and by the hand of the entire house of Ahab. And you shall utterly destroy to Ahab the ones urinating against a wall, and the one being held and the one left free slave and freeman. in Israel.
2KI 9:9 And I will appoint the house of Ahab as the house of Jeroboam son of Nebat, and as the house of Baasha son of Ahijah.
2KI 9:10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall not be one burying her. And he opened the door, and fled.
2KI 9:11 And Jehu came forth to the servants of his master, and they said to him, Peace? What is it that this one overcome by convulsions entered to you? And he said to them, You know the man, and his meditation.
2KI 9:12 And they said, That's unjust, but announce to us! And he said to them, Such and such he said to me, saying, Thus says the LORD, I anoint you for king over Israel.
2KI 9:13 And hearing, they hastened, and each took his cloak, and put them underneath him upon the frame of the stairs. And they trumped with the horn, and said, Jehu reigns.
2KI 9:14 And Jehu son of Jehoshaphat son of Nimshi confederated against Joram. And Joram guarded in Ramoth Gilead, he and all Israel before Hazael king of Syria.
2KI 9:15 And Joram the king returned to be treated medically in Jezreel from the wounds which the Syrians hit him in his waging war against Hazael king of Syria. And Jehu said, If your soul is with me, let there not go forth out of the city any one escaping to go and report in Jezreel.
2KI 9:16 And Jehu rode and went unto Jezreel, for Joram was being attended to in Jezreel. And Ahaziah king of Judah came down to see Joram.
2KI 9:17 And the watchman was standing upon the tower in Jezreel. And he beheld the cloud of dust of the multitude of Jehu in his coming. And he said, I see a cloud of dust of the multitude. And Joram said, Take a rider, and send for meeting them! And let him say, Is it peace?
2KI 9:18 And the rider went upon the horse for meeting him. And he said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What is it to you and peace? You turn to the ones behind me! And the watchman reported, saying, The messenger came unto them, and returned not.
2KI 9:19 And he sent a second rider of a horse. And he came to them, and he said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What is it to you and peace? You turn to the ones behind me!
2KI 9:20 And the watchman reported, saying, He came unto them, and returned not. And the leader is as the leader Jehu son of Nimshi; for he is in a frenzy.
2KI 9:21 And Joram said, Team up chariots! And they teamed up. And Joram king of Israel went forth, and Ahaziah king of Judah, each man in his chariot. And they came forth for meeting Jehu, and found him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.
2KI 9:22 And it came to pass, as Joram beheld Jehu, that he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And Jehu said, What is it to you and peace with still the harlotries of Jezebel your mother and her many potions?
2KI 9:23 And Joram turned his hands to flee, and said to Ahaziah, Treachery, Ahaziah.
2KI 9:24 And Jehu filled his hand with the bow, and struck Joram between his arms, and came forth the arrow through his heart, and he bent upon his knees.
2KI 9:25 And Jehu said to Bidkar his tribune, Take, and toss him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite! For I remember, I and you mounting upon teams after Ahab his father, and the LORD took upon him this concern, saying,
2KI 9:26 Surely indeed, I beheld yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons, says the LORD. And I shall recompense to you in this portion of land, says the LORD. And now lift him and toss him in the portion of land, according to the word of the LORD!
2KI 9:27 And Ahaziah king of Judah beheld, and fled the way of Beth-agan. And Jehu pursued after him, and said, Even indeed him - strike him upon the chariot in the ascent of Gur, which is the one of Ibleam! And he fled into Megiddo, and died there.
2KI 9:28 And his servants set him upon the chariot, and led him into Jerusalem. And they entombed him with his fathers in his tomb in the city of David.
2KI 9:29 And in the eleventh year of Joram king of Israel Ahaziah took reign over Judah.
2KI 9:30 And Jehu came to Jezreel. And Jezebel heard; and she tinged her eyes with antimony, and adorned her head, and looked through the window.
2KI 9:31 And Jehu entered into the city. And she said, Is it peace to Zimri, the murderer of his master?
2KI 9:32 And he lifted up his face unto the window, and beheld her, and said, Who are you? Come down to me! And two eunuchs stooped forward to look down at him.
2KI 9:33 And he said, Roll her over! And they rolled her over. And her blood sprinkled against the wall, and against the horses - and they trampled upon her.
2KI 9:34 And Jehu entered, and ate and drank. And he said, Watch indeed this cursed one, and bury her; for she is the daughter of a king.
2KI 9:35 And they went to bury her; and they found not of her except the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.
2KI 9:36 And they returned, and announced it to him. And he said, This is the word of the LORD, which he spoke by the hand of his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel.
2KI 9:37 And the decaying flesh of Jezebel will be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel; so as to not say, This is Jezebel.
2KI 10:1 And to Ahab were seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote a scroll, and sent it unto Samaria, to the rulers of Samaria, and to the elders, and to the wet-nurses of the sons of Ahab, saying,
2KI 10:2 And now, whenever this scroll comes to you, and with you are the sons of your master, and with you are the chariots and the horses, and fortified cities, and weapons;
2KI 10:3 that you shall look for the good and the upright one among the sons of your master, and you shall place him upon the throne of his father, and you shall wage war for the house of your master.
2KI 10:4 And they feared exceedingly, and said, Behold, the two kings stood not against his face, and how shall we stand?
2KI 10:5 And they sent the ones over the household, and the ones over the city, and the elders, and the wet-nurses, to Jehu, saying, We are your servants, and all as much as you should say to us we shall do. We will not give anyone reign - the thing good in your eyes we will do.
2KI 10:6 And Jehu wrote to them a second scroll, saying, If you are with me, and you listen to my voice, take the heads of the men of the sons of your master, and bring them to me at this hour tomorrow in Jezreel! And the sons of the king were seventy men, of whom the stout men of the city nourished them.
2KI 10:7 And it came to pass as the scroll came to them, that they took the sons of the king, and slew them - seventy men. And they put their heads in baskets, and sent to him in Jezreel.
2KI 10:8 And the messenger came, and reported to him, saying, They brought the heads of the sons of the king. And he said, Place them in two hills by the door of the gate until morning.
2KI 10:9 And it became morning, and he came forth, and stood, and said to all the people, You are just. Behold, I confederated against my master, and I killed him - but who struck all of these?
2KI 10:10 See that there shall not fall of the saying of the LORD unto the ground, of which the LORD spoke against the house of Ahab. And the LORD did as much as he spoke by the hand of his servant Elijah.
2KI 10:11 And Jehu struck all the ones being left among the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his stout men, and his well known men, and his priests, unto his not leaving behind a vestige.
2KI 10:12 And he rose up and went into Samaria. And he was in Beth-Akad of the shepherds in the way.
2KI 10:13 And Jehu found the brothers of Ahaziah king of Judah, and he said, Who are you? And they said, We are brothers of Ahaziah, and we came down in peace of the sons of the king, and the sons of the woman being in power.
2KI 10:14 And he said, Seize them alive! And they seized them. And they slew them in Beth-akad - forty and two men. And he left not a man of them.
2KI 10:15 And he went from there, and he found Jehonadab son of Rechab in the way for meeting him. And he blessed him, and Jehu said to him, Is your heart straight with my heart, as my heart is with your heart? And Jehonadab said, It is. And Jehu said, Then if it is, give your hand! And he gave his hand; and he hauled him to himself upon the chariot.
2KI 10:16 And he said to him, Come with me, and see in my zealousness to the LORD! And he sat by him in his chariot.
2KI 10:17 And he entered into Samaria, and struck all the ones left of Ahab in Samaria, unto obliterating him according to the saying of the LORD, which he spoke to Elijah.
2KI 10:18 And Jehu gathered together all the people, and said to them, Ahab served to Baal a little; Jehu shall serve to him much.
2KI 10:19 And now call to me all the prophets of Baal, and his priests, and all his servants! Let not a man be overlooked! For I make a great sacrifice to Baal. All who ever overlooked shall not live. And Jehu did it by trickery, that he might destroy the servants of Baal.
2KI 10:20 And Jehu said, Sanctify a service to Baal! And they proclaimed it.
2KI 10:21 And Jehu sent in all Israel. And all the servants of Baal came - there was not left behind a man who did not come. And they entered into the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was filled - mouth unto mouth.
2KI 10:22 And Jehu told to the one over the house wardrobe to bring out garments for all the servants of Baal. And the keeper of the wardrobe brought them forth to them.
2KI 10:23 And Jehu entered, and Jehonadab son of Rechab, into the house of Baal. And he said to the servants of Baal, Search and see if there is with you servants of the LORD! For there is to be only the servants of Baal alone.
2KI 10:24 And they entered to offer the sacrifices and the whole burnt offerings. And Jehu stationed for himself outside eighty men. And he said, A man who ever should preserve anyone of the men whom I bring in unto your hands, his life will be for his life.
2KI 10:25 And it came to pass as he completed offering the whole burnt offering, that Jehu said to the bodyguards and to the tribunes, In entering, strike them! Let not come forth from them a man! And the bodyguards and the tribunes struck them by the mouth of the broadsword. And they tossed the bodies, and went unto the city of the house of Baal.
2KI 10:26 And they brought forth the monument of Baal, and burnt it.
2KI 10:27 And they tore down the monuments of Baal, and they demolished his house. And the house of Baal they established for a bathhouse until this day.
2KI 10:28 And Jehu removed Baal from Israel.
2KI 10:29 Except from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin, Jehu did not abstain from after them - the heifers of gold in Beth-el, and in Dan.
2KI 10:30 And the LORD said to Jehu, Because you did good to do the upright thing in my eyes, and you did according to all the things in my heart to the house of Ahab, your sons unto the fourth generation shall sit down for you upon the throne of Israel.
2KI 10:31 And Jehu did not guard to go in the law of the LORD God of Israel with his entire heart. He did not abstain from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.
2KI 10:32 In those days the LORD began to cut down in Israel. And Hazael struck them in every border of Israel;
2KI 10:33 from the Jordan according to the rising of the sun, all the land of Gilead of the Gadites, and of Reuben, and of Manasseh, from Aroer, which is upon the edge of the rushing stream Arnon, and Gilead and Bashan.
2KI 10:34 And the rest of the words of Jehu, and all as much as he did, and all his dominations, and the associations which he joined - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 10:35 And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in Samaria, and Jehoahaz his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 10:36 And the days which Jehu reigned over Israel were twenty-eight years in Samaria.
2KI 11:1 And Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son died, and she rose up and destroyed all the seed of the kingdom.
2KI 11:2 And Jehosheba daughter of king Joram sister of Ahaziah took Joash the son of her brother, and stole him away from the midst of the sons of the king being put to death - him and his nurse. And she hid him in the inner chamber of the beds from the face of Athaliah, and he was not put to death.
2KI 11:3 And he was with her in the house of the LORD being hid six years. And Athaliah reigned over the land.
2KI 11:4 And in the seventh year Jehoiada the priest sent and took the commanders of hundreds of the patrols, and of the couriers, and brought them in to himself in the house of the LORD. And he ordained with them a covenant, and bound them to an oath in the presence of the LORD, and showed to them the son of the king.
2KI 11:5 And he gave charge to them, saying, This is the thing which you shall do - the third part of you entering on the Sabbath, let guard the watch of the house of the king!
2KI 11:6 And the third part in the gate of the way, and the third part in the gate behind the bodyguards, even guard the watch of the house!
2KI 11:7 And two hands among you, any going forth on the Sabbath, shall guard the watch of the house of the LORD unto the king.
2KI 11:8 And you shall encircle around the king - every man round about, and his weapon shall be in his hand. And the one entering into the ranks shall die. And they will be with the king in his entering and in his exiting.
2KI 11:9 And the commanders of hundreds did according to all as much as Jehoiada gave charge. And each commander took of his men entering on the Sabbath, with the ones exiting on the Sabbath, and entered to Jehoiada the priest.
2KI 11:10 And the priest gave to the commanders of a hundred the quivers and the wooden spears of king David - the ones in the house of the LORD.
2KI 11:11 And the bodyguards each stood, and his weapon was in his hand, at the protrusion of the house at the right, unto the protrusion of the house at the left of the altar, and of the house around the king round about.
2KI 11:12 And he brought forth the son of the king, and put upon him the diadem, and the testimony. And he anointed him, and gave him reign. And they clapped their hands, and said, Let the king live!
2KI 11:13 And Athaliah heard the sound of the running of the people, and she went to the people into the house of the LORD.
2KI 11:14 And she saw. And behold, the king stood at the column according to their practice. And the singers and the ones with trumpets were around the king. And all the people of the land were rejoicing, and trumpeting with trumpets. And Athaliah tore her garments, and yelled, Conspiracy, conspiracy.
2KI 11:15 And Jehoiada the priest gave charge to the commanders of hundreds, and to the overseers of the force, and said to them, Lead her outside the ranks and the one entering after her! To death she shall be put to death by the broadsword. For the priest said, She should not die in the house of the LORD.
2KI 11:16 And they put hands upon her, and she entered by way of the entrance of the horses of the house of the king. And they put her to death there.
2KI 11:17 And Jehoiada ordained a covenant between the LORD and between the king and between the people, for them to be a people to the LORD.
2KI 11:18 And all the people of the land entered into the house of Baal, and they tore it down. And his altars, and his images they broke diligently. And Mathan the priest of Baal they killed before the face of the altars. And the priest established overseers in the house of the LORD.
2KI 11:19 And he took the commanders of hundreds, and the patrol, and the couriers, and all the people of the land; and they led the king from out of the house of the LORD, and entered the way of the gate of the bodyguards of the house of the king. And they seated him upon the throne of the kings.
2KI 11:20 And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was still. And Athaliah they put to death by a broadsword in the house of the king.
2KI 11:21 Joash was a son seven years old in his taking reign.
2KI 12:1 Joash reigned in the seventh year of Jehu, and forty years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
2KI 12:2 And Joash did the upright thing before the LORD all the days which Jehoiada the priest enlightened him.
2KI 12:3 Only the high places he removed not, and the people still sacrificed there, and burned incense in the high places.
2KI 12:4 And Joash said to the priests, All the money of the holy things coming in as income into the house of the LORD, the money of the valuation of a man, the money of valuation of souls, all money what ever ascends upon the heart of a man to bring in the house of the LORD,
2KI 12:5 let the priests take it for themselves - every man from their sale! And they shall repair the breach of the house in all the places where ever a breach should be found there.
2KI 12:6 And it came to pass in the twentieth and third year of king Joash the priests did not repair the breach of the house.
2KI 12:7 And Joash the king called Jehoiada the priest, and the priests, and said to them, Why is it that the breach of the house was not repaired? And now, do not take the money from your sales! For unto the breach of the house you shall appoint it.
2KI 12:8 And the priests joined in harmony to not take money from the people, and to not strengthen the breach of the house.
2KI 12:9 And Jehoiada the priest took one chest, and made in it one opening, and put it by the altar, at the right side of men entering into the house of the LORD. And the priests guarding at the thresholds gave there all the money being carried into the house of the LORD.
2KI 12:10 And it came to pass, as they saw that there was much money in the chest, that the scribe of the king ascended, and the great priest, and they grasped and counted the money being found in the house of the LORD.
2KI 12:11 And they gave the money, being prepared, into the hands of the ones doing the works of the ones overseeing the house of the LORD. And they handed over to the fabricators of the wood items, and to the builders doing work in the house of the LORD,
2KI 12:12 and to the stonemasons, and to the quarriers of the stones, to acquire wood and quarried stones, to repair the breach of the house of the LORD, for all as much as was spent upon the house to repair it.
2KI 12:13 Only they were not to make for the house of the LORD silver doors, nails, bowls, and trumpets, or any gold item, or silver item from out of the money being carried in the house of the LORD.
2KI 12:14 For to the ones doing the works they gave it. And they repaired by it the house of the LORD.
2KI 12:15 And they did not call into account the men to whom was given the money into their hands, to give to the ones doing the work - for they were acting in trust.
2KI 12:16 But money for a trespass offering, and money for a sin offering was not carried into the house of the LORD, for it was to the priests.
2KI 12:17 Then Hazael king of Syria ascended up, and waged war against Gath, and was first to take it. And Hazael arranged his face to ascend against Jerusalem.
2KI 12:18 And Joash king of Judah took all the holy things which Jehoshaphat sanctified, and Joram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah, and his holy things, and all the gold being found in the treasuries of the house of the LORD, and of the house of the king, and sent them to Hazael king of Syria. And he ascended away from Jerusalem.
2KI 12:19 And the rest of the words of Joash, and all as many things as he did - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 12:20 And his servants rose up, and made a conspiracy, and struck Joash in the house of Millo, in the descent to Silla.
2KI 12:21 And Jozachar son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad son of Shomer, his servants struck him, and he died; and they entombed him with his fathers in the city of David. And Amaziah his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 13:1 In the twentieth and third year of Joash son of Ahaziah king of Judah, Jehoahaz son of Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria seventeen years.
2KI 13:2 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, and went after the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin - he abstained not from them.
2KI 13:3 And the LORD was provoked in anger to rage against Israel, and gave them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and in the hand of the son of Hadad, son of Hazael all the days.
2KI 13:4 And Jehoahaz beseeched the face of the LORD, and the LORD heeded him, for he beheld the affliction of Israel, because the king of Syria afflicted them.
2KI 13:5 (And the LORD gave deliverance to Israel, and Israel came forth from beneath the hand of Syria. And the sons of Israel sat in their tents as yesterday and the third day before.
2KI 13:6 Only they abstained not from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who led Israel into sin - they went by them. And indeed the sacred grove was established in Samaria.)
2KI 13:7 For there was not left behind to Jehoahaz a people, but only fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Syria destroyed them, and appointed them as dust for trampling.
2KI 13:8 And the rest of the words of Jehoahaz, and all as much as he did, and his dominations - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 13:9 And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers; and they entombed him in Samaria. And Joash his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 13:10 In the thirtieth and seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Joash son of Jehoahaz reigned over Israel in Samaria sixteen years.
2KI 13:11 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD; he abstained not from all the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat who led Israel into sin - he went by them.
2KI 13:12 And the rest of the words of Joash, and all as much as he did, and his dominations which he did with Amaziah king of Judah, have these not been written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 13:13 And Joash slept with his fathers. And Jeroboam II sat upon his throne. And Joash was entombed in Samaria with the kings of Israel.
2KI 13:14 And Elisha became ill with his illness of which he died. And Joash king of Israel went down to him and wept upon his face, and said, O father, O father, the chariot of Israel, and his horseman.
2KI 13:15 And Elisha said to him, Take a bow and arrows. And he took to himself a bow and arrows.
2KI 13:16 And he said to the king of Israel, Set your hand upon the bow! And he set his hand. And Elisha placed his hands upon the hands of the king.
2KI 13:17 And he said, Open the window according to the east! And he opened. And Elisha said, Shoot! And he shot. And he said, The arrow of deliverance of the LORD, and the arrow of deliverance in Syria. And you shall strike Syria in Aphek until completion.
2KI 13:18 And Elisha said to him, Take arrows! And he took. And he said to the king of Israel, Strike against the ground! And he struck three times and stopped.
2KI 13:19 And the man of God fretted over him, and said, If you struck five times or six times; then you would have struck the Syrian until completion. And now three times you shall strike Syria.
2KI 13:20 And Elisha died, and they entombed him. And armed bands of Moab came in the land at the coming of the year.
2KI 13:21 And it came to pass as they were entombing theanother dead man. man, that behold, they beheld the armed band, and they tossed the man in the burying-place of Elisha, and it went and touched the bones of Elisha, and he came alive, and rose upon his feet.
2KI 13:22 And Hazael king of Syria squeezed against Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
2KI 13:23 And the LORD showed mercy on them, and pitied them, and looked upon them on account of his covenant with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. And the LORD wanted not to utterly destroy them, and he did not throw them from his face until now.
2KI 13:24 And Hazael king of Syria died, and the son of Hadad his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 13:25 And Joash son of Jehoahaz returned and took the city from out of the hand of the son of Hadad, son of Hazael, who took it from out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father in the war. Three times Joash struck him, and he returned the cities of Israel.
2KI 14:1 In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah reigned.
2KI 14:2 He was a son being twenty and five years old in his reigning. And twenty and nine years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
2KI 14:3 And he did the upright thing in the eyes of the LORD, only not as David his forefather. According to all as much as Joash his father did he did.
2KI 14:4 Only the high places he did not remove; and still the people sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
2KI 14:5 And it came to pass when the kingdom grew strong in his hand, that he struck his servants, the ones striking his father.
2KI 14:6 And the sons of the ones striking he did not put to death, as it is written upon the scroll of the law of Moses, as the LORD gave charge, saying, Fathers shall not die for the sons, and the sons shall not die for the fathers; but only each for his sin shall he die.
2KI 14:7 He struck Edom in Gemela - ten thousand, and seized Rock in the war, and called its name, Joktheel until this day.
2KI 14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Joash, son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, we should see faces..
2KI 14:9 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thorn in Lebanon sent to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son for a wife! And the wild beasts went through the field in Lebanon, and trampled upon the thorn.
2KI 14:10 Having beaten, you struck Edom, and your heart encouraged you. Be glorified sitting down in your house! And why do you contend in your evil, that you shall fall, and Judah with you?
2KI 14:11 And Amaziah hearkened not. And Joash king of Israel ascended, and he and Amaziah king of Judah saw faces in Beth-shemesh of Judea.
2KI 14:12 And Judah failed from in front of Israel; and each man fled to his tent.
2KI 14:13 And Joash king of Israel seized Amaziah son of Joash son of Ahaziah king of Judah in Beth-shemesh, and came into Jerusalem, and demolished in the wall of Jerusalem at the gate of Ephraim unto the gate of the corner - four hundred cubits.
2KI 14:14 And he took the gold, and the silver, and all the items being found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasuries of the house of the king, and of the sons of the alliances, and returned unto Samaria.
2KI 14:15 And the rest of the words of Joash, as much as he did in his domination in which he waged war with Amaziah king of Judah, are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 14:16 And Joash slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in Samaria with the kings of Israel. And Jeroboam II his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 14:17 And Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah lived after the dying of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
2KI 14:18 And the rest of the words of Amaziah, and all as much as he did - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 14:19 And they confederated against him with a confederation in Jerusalem. And he fled unto Lachish. And they sent after him unto Lachish, and put him to death there.
2KI 14:20 And they lifted him upon the horses, and he was entombed in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
2KI 14:21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, and he was a son sixteen years old, and they gave him reign instead of his father Amaziah.
2KI 14:22 He built Elath, and returned it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers.
2KI 14:23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah, Jeroboam II son of Joash reigned over Israel in Samaria - forty and one year.
2KI 14:24 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD. He abstained not from all of the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.
2KI 14:25 He restored the boundary of Israel from the entrance of Hamath unto the sea of the wilderness, according to the saying of the LORD God of Israel, who spoke by the hand of his servant Jonah, son of Amittai, the prophet, from out of Gath-hepher.
2KI 14:26 For the LORD beheld the humiliation of Israel, that it was exceedingly bitter, and very few, and being held together, and being depleted, and being abandoned, and there was not one helping Israel.
2KI 14:27 And the LORD did not speak to wipe away the name of Israel from beneath heaven. And he delivered them by the hand of Jeroboam II son of Joash.
2KI 14:28 And the rest of the words of Jeroboam II, and all as much as he did, and his dominations, as much as he waged war, and as much as he returned Damascus, and Hamath belonging to to Judah, unto Israel - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 14:29 And Jeroboam II slept with his fathers with the kings of Israel. And Zechariah his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 15:1 In the twentieth and seventh year of Jeroboam II king of Israel, Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah reigned.
2KI 15:2 He was a son being sixteen years old in his reign, and fifty-two years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Jecholiah of Jerusalem.
2KI 15:3 And he did the upright thing in the eyes of the LORD, according to all as much as Amaziah his father did.
2KI 15:4 Only the high places he did not remove; and still the people sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
2KI 15:5 And the LORD touched the king, and he was being leprous until the day of his death, and he reigned in a house apart. And Jotham son of the king was over the house, judging the people of the land.
2KI 15:6 And the rest of the words of Azariah and all as much as he did - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 15:7 And Azariah slept with his fathers. And they entombed him with his fathers in the city of David. And his son Jotham reigned instead of him.
2KI 15:8 In the thirtieth and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah son of Jeroboam II reigned over Israel in Samaria six months.
2KI 15:9 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD as did his fathers. He abstained not from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.
2KI 15:10 And Shallum son of Jabesh confederated against him, and struck him in Keblaam, and killed him, and reigned instead of him.
2KI 15:11 And the rest of the words of Zechariah - behold, these are written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel.
2KI 15:12 This is the word of the LORD which he spoke to Jehu, saying, Your sons shall sit unto the fourth generation upon the throne of Israel - and it became so.
2KI 15:13 And Shallum son of Jabesh reigned in the thirtieth and ninth year of Azariah king of Judah; and he reigned a month of days in Samaria.
2KI 15:14 And Menahem son of Gadi from Tirzah ascended, and came into Samaria, and struck Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria, and killed him, and reigned instead of him.
2KI 15:15 And the rest of the words of Shallum, and of his confederacy which he confederated - behold, these are written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel.
2KI 15:16 Then Menahem struck Tiphsah, and all the ones in it, and its borders from Tirzah; for it did not open up to him, and he struck it; and the ones having one in the womb he tore asunder.
2KI 15:17 In the thirtieth and ninth year of Azariah king of Judah Menahem son of Gadi reigned over Israel in Samaria ten years.
2KI 15:18 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD. He abstained not from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel to sin.
2KI 15:19 In his days Pul king of the Assyrians ascended upon the land. And Menahem gave to Pul a thousand talents of silver for his hand to be with him to strengthen his kingdom in his hand.
2KI 15:20 And Menahem brought forth the silver for Israel, excised upon every mighty man in strength, to give to the king of the Assyrians - fifty shekels for the one man. And the king of the Assyrians returned, and did not station there in the land.
2KI 15:21 And the rest of the words of Menahem, and all as much as he did - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2KI 15:22 And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 15:23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah son of Menahem reigned over Israel in Samaria two years.
2KI 15:24 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD. He abstained not from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.
2KI 15:25 And Pekah son of Remaliah his tribune confederated against him, and struck him in Samaria, before the house of the king, with Argob, and with Arieh, and with him fifty men from the sons of the Gileadites. And he killed him, and reigned instead of him.
2KI 15:26 And the rest of the words of Pekahiah, and all as much as he did - behold, these are written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel.
2KI 15:27 In the fiftieth and second year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah son of Remaliah reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty years.
2KI 15:28 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD. He abstained not from all the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.
2KI 15:29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglath-pileser king of the Assyrians, and took Ijon, and Abel-beth-maachah, and Janoah, and Kenez, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and resettled them into Assyria.
2KI 15:30 And Hoshea son of Elah confederated a confederation against Pekah son of Remaliah, and struck him, and killed him, and reigned instead of him in the twentieth year of Jotham son of Uzziah.
2KI 15:31 And the rest of the words of Pekah, and all as much as he did - behold, these are written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel.
2KI 15:32 In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel Jotham son of Uzziah king of Judah reigned.
2KI 15:33 He was a son being twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Jerusha, daughter of Zadok.
2KI 15:34 And he did upright in the eyes of the LORD according to all as much as Uzziah his father did.
2KI 15:35 Only the high places he did not remove; and still the people sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. He built the gate of the house of the LORD - the upper.
2KI 15:36 And the rest of the words of Jotham, and all as much as he did - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 15:37 In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin king of Syria, and Pekah son of Remaliah.
2KI 15:38 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they entombed him with his fathers in the city of David his forefather. And Ahaz his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 16:1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah son of Remaliah Ahaz son of Jotham king of Judah reigned.
2KI 16:2 Ahaz was a son being twenty years old in his reigning, and sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem, and did not do the upright thing in the eyes of the LORD his God, as David his forefather.
2KI 16:3 And he went in the way of the kings of Israel, and indeed he led his son through fire, according to the abominations of the nations, which the LORD removed in front of the sons of Israel.
2KI 16:4 And he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places, and upon the hills, and underneath every tree of the woods.
2KI 16:5 Then Rezin king of Syria ascended, and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel to Jerusalem for war. And they made assault against Ahaz, and were not able to wage war successfully.
2KI 16:6 In that time Rezin king of Syria returned Elath to Syria, and cast out the Jews from Elath. And the Edomites came into Elath, and dwelt there until this day.
2KI 16:7 And Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of the Assyrians, saying, I am your servant and your son. Ascend, and deliver me from out of the hand of the king of Syria, and from out of the hand of the king of Israel, of the ones rising up against me!
2KI 16:8 And Ahaz took the silver and the gold he found in the treasuries of the house of the LORD, and of the house of the king, and sent gifts to the king of the Assyrians.
2KI 16:9 And the king of the Assyrians heard him. And the king of the Assyrians ascended up against Damascus, and seized it, and resettled it, and killed Rezin.
2KI 16:10 And king Ahaz went to meet Tiglath-pileser king of the Assyrians in Damascus, and saw the altar in Damascus. And king Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the likeness of the altar, and the proportions of it, according to all its makings.
2KI 16:11 And Urijah the priest built the altar according to all as much as king Ahaz sent from Damascus. Thus Urijah the priest did until the coming of the king from Damascus.
2KI 16:12 And the king came from Damascus. And the king beheld the altar. And the king drew near to the altar, and ascended unto it.
2KI 16:13 And he offered his whole burnt offering, and his sacrifice offering, and offered a libation of his libation offering on it. And he poured upon it the blood of his peace offerings, upon the altar.
2KI 16:14 And the brass altar which was before the LORD he brought forward in front of the house of the LORD, from between the altar and from between the house of the LORD, and put it by the side of the altar according to the north.
2KI 16:15 And king Ahaz gave charge to Urijah the priest, saying, Upon the great altar offer the whole burnt offering, the early morning offering, and the the evening sacrifice offering, and the whole burnt offerings of the king, and his sacrifice offerings, and the whole burnt offering of all the people, and their sacrifice offerings, and their libation offerings! And all the blood of the whole burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice offering you shall pour out upon it! And the altar of brass will be for me in the morning.
2KI 16:16 And Urijah the priest did according to all as much as Ahaz the king gave charge to him.
2KI 16:17 And king Ahaz cut down the joinery of the bases, and moved the bathing tub from them; and the sea he lowered from the oxen of brass underneath it, and put it upon a stone base.
2KI 16:18 And the foundation of the chair of the Sabbaths he built in the house of the LORD, and the entrance of the king outside, he turned in the house of the LORD from in front of the king of the Assyrians.
2KI 16:19 And the rest of the words of Ahaz, as much as he did - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 16:20 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and he was entombed with his fathers in the city of David. And Hezekiah his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 17:1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea son of Elah reigned in Samaria over Israel for nine years.
2KI 17:2 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, only not as the kings of Israel who were before him.
2KI 17:3 Shalmaneser king of the Assyrians ascended against him; and Hoshea became a servant to him, and bore gifts to him.
2KI 17:4 And the king of the Assyrians found a plot by Hoshea; for Hoshea sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and did not bring gifts to the king of the Assyrians year by year. And the king of the Assyrians assaulted him, and tied him up in the house of the prison.
2KI 17:5 And the king of the Assyrians ascended unto all the land, and ascended unto Samaria, and assaulted it for three years.
2KI 17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of the Assyrians seized Samaria, and resettled Israel into Assyria, and settled them in Halah and in Habor, the rivers of Gozan, in the borders of the Medes.
2KI 17:7 And it came to pass that the sons of Israel sinned against the LORD their God, the one leading them from out of the land of Egypt, from beneath the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and they feared other gods.
2KI 17:8 And they went by the ordinances of the nations which the LORD removed in front of the sons of Israel, and the kings of Israel, as many as they did.
2KI 17:9 And the sons of Israel clothed words of wrongdoings against the LORD their God, and built to themselves high places in all their cities, from guard tower unto the fortified city.
2KI 17:10 And they set up to themselves stone monuments and sacred groves upon every high hill, and underneath every tree of the woods.
2KI 17:11 And they burned incense there in all the high places, as the nations which the LORD resettled from their face. And they made partners, and they graved images to provoke the LORD to anger.
2KI 17:12 And they served to the idols, which the LORD said to them, Do not do this thing!
2KI 17:13 And the LORD testified to Israel, and to Judah, by the hand of all his prophets, every one of them seers, saying, Turn from your wicked ways, and guard my commandments, and my ordinances, and every law which I gave charge to your fathers, as many as I sent to them by the hand of my servants the prophets!
2KI 17:14 And they hearkened not, and they hardened their back above the back of their fathers, that trusted not in the LORD their God;
2KI 17:15 even thrusting away his covenant, and the ordinances which he ordained with their fathers, and his testimonies, as many as he testified to them, and went after the vain things, and acted in folly, and followed after the nations surrounding them, which the LORD gave charge to them to not do according to these things.
2KI 17:16 And they abandoned the commandments of the LORD their God, and made to themselves molten castings of two heifers, and made a sacred grove, and did obeisance to all the military of the heaven, and served to Baal.
2KI 17:17 And they led their sons and their daughters through fire, and used oracles of divinations, and foretold. And they were sold to do the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
2KI 17:18 And the LORD was enraged exceedingly with Israel. And he removed them from his face. He did not leave any behind except the tribe of Judah alone.
2KI 17:19 And indeed Judah did not guard the commandments of the LORD his God, and went by the ordinances of Israel, which they did. And they thrusted away the LORD.
2KI 17:20 And the LORD was enraged with all the seed of Israel, and he shook them off, and gave them into the hand of the ones tearing them in pieces, until of which time he threw them away from his face.
2KI 17:21 For furthermore Israel was torn from the house of David; and they gave reign to Jeroboam son of Nebat. And Jeroboam banished Israel from following the LORD, and led them into sin - a great sin.
2KI 17:22 And the sons of Israel went in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did - they abstained not from them;
2KI 17:23 until of which the LORD removed Israel from his face, as the LORD spoke by the hand of all his servants the prophets. And Israel was resettled from its land into Assyria until this day.
2KI 17:24 And the king of the Assyrians led from out of Babylon the one from out of Cuthah, and from out of Ava, and from out of Hamath, and Sepharvaim, and settled them in the cities of Samaria instead of the sons of Israel. And they inherited Samaria, and settled in its cities.
2KI 17:25 And it came to pass in the beginning of their place of sitting down, they did not fear the LORD. And the LORD sent among them the lions, and they were being killed by them.
2KI 17:26 And they said to the king of the Assyrians, saying, The nations which you resettled, and relocated in the cities of Samaria, know not the distinguishing manner of the God of the land. And he sent to them lions, and behold, they are killing them, in so far as they know not the distinguishing manner of the God of the land.
2KI 17:27 And the king of the Assyrians gave charge, saying, Lead away there one of the priests whom I resettled from Samaria, and let him go and dwell there! And he shall enlighten them on the distinguishing manner of the God of the land.
2KI 17:28 And they brought one of the priests whom they resettled from Samaria, and he settled in Beth-el. And he was enlightening them how they should fear the LORD.
2KI 17:29 And nation by nation were making their gods. And they put them in the houses of the high places, which the Samaritans made, nation by nation in their cities in which they dwelt.
2KI 17:30 And the men of Babylon made Succoth Benoth, and the men of Cuth made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,
2KI 17:31 and the Avites made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites incinerated their sons by fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, gods of the Sepharvaim.
2KI 17:32 And they were fearing the LORD, and they also made for themselves priests of the high places; and they offered for themselves in the houses of the high places.
2KI 17:33 They were fearing the LORD, and they served their gods, according to the distinguishing manner of the nations from where he resettled them from there.
2KI 17:34 Until this day they do according to their distinguishing manner. They are not fearing the LORD, and they do not do according to their ordinances, and according to their judgment, and according to the law, and according to the commandment which the LORD gave charge to the sons of Jacob, of whom he established his name Israel.
2KI 17:35 And the LORD ordained with them a covenant, and gave charge to them, saying, You shall not fear other gods, and you shall not do obeisance to them, and you shall not serve to them, and you shall not sacrifice to them.
2KI 17:36 For only to the LORD, who led you from out of the land of Egypt with great strength and with a high arm - him you shall fear, and to him you shall do obeisance, and to him you shall sacrifice.
2KI 17:37 And his ordinances, and the judgments, and the commandments, and the law which he wrote for you, you shall guard to do all the days; and you shall not fear other gods.
2KI 17:38 And the covenant which he ordained with you you shall not forget; and you shall not fear other gods.
2KI 17:39 For only the LORD your God - him you shall fear; and he will rescue you from the hand of all your enemies.
2KI 17:40 And they hearkened not, but only in their former ordinances they acted.
2KI 17:41 And these nations were fearing the LORD, and they served to their carvings - even indeed their sons, and the sons of their sons themselves do as did their fathers unto this day.
2KI 18:1 And it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Hezekiah son of Ahaz king of Judah reigned.
2KI 18:2 He was a son being twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and twenty and nine years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Abi, daughter of Zachariah.
2KI 18:3 And he did the upright thing in the eyes of the LORD, according to all as much as David his forefather did.
2KI 18:4 He removed the high places, and broke the monuments, and cut down the sacred groves, and cut up the serpent of brass which Moses made; for unto those days the sons of Israel were burning incense to it. And he called it Nehushtan.
2KI 18:5 In the LORD God of Israel he hoped. There was not one likened to him after him among the kings of Judah, and among the ones taking place before him.
2KI 18:6 And he cleaved to the LORD. He did not leave from behind him, and he guarded his commandments, as many as the LORD gave charge to Moses.
2KI 18:7 And the LORD was with him - in all the things which he did he perceived. And he annulled allegiance to the king of the Assyrians, and did not serve to him.
2KI 18:8 He struck the Philistines unto Gaza, and unto its border, from the tower of the ones guarding, and unto the fortified city.
2KI 18:9 And it came to pass in the fourth year to king Hezekiah, this is the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, ascended Shalmaneser king of the Assyrians against Samaria, and assaulted it.
2KI 18:10 And he overtook it at the end of three years. In the sixth year of Hezekiah, this is the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was seized.
2KI 18:11 And the king of the Assyrians resettled the Samarian into Assyria, and he put them in Halah and in Habor by the river Gozan, and in the borders of the Medes;
2KI 18:12 because they hearkened not to the voice of the LORD their God, and they violated his covenant, all as much as he gave charge to Moses the manservant of the LORD - and they hearkened not, and they did not do.
2KI 18:13 And in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah Sennacherib king of the Assyrians ascended against the fortified cities of Judah, and seized them.
2KI 18:14 And Hezekiah king of Judah sent messengers to the king of the Assyrians to Lachish, saying, I have sinned; turn from me! What ever you should place upon me I will bear. And the king of the Assyrians placed a tribute upon Hezekiah king of Judah of three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
2KI 18:15 And Hezekiah gave all the silver he found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasuries of the house of the king.
2KI 18:16 In that time Hezekiah the king of Judah cut off the doors of the temple of the LORD, and the supports which Hezekiah the king of Judah gilded, and gave them to the king of the Assyrians.
2KI 18:17 And the king of the Assyrians sent Tartan, and Rabsaris, and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a heavy force to Jerusalem. And they ascended, and came to Jerusalem. And they stood by the aqueduct of the upper pool, which is in the way of the field of the fuller.
2KI 18:18 And they yelled to Hezekiah. And Eliakim son of Hilkiah the manager came to them, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the one taking record.
2KI 18:19 And Rabshakeh said to them, Say indeed to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king, the king of the Assyrians, What is this reliance which you yield on?
2KI 18:20 How then do words of the lips and counsel become the battle array for war? Now then, upon whom are you relying upon, that you annulled allegiance to me?
2KI 18:21 Behold, are you yourself relying upon this fractured rod of reed - upon Egypt? Thus if a man should stay upon it, it will enter into his hand, and puncture it. Thus is Pharoah king of Egypt to all the ones relying upon him.
2KI 18:22 And if you should say to me, Upon the LORD our God we rely on. Is it not he that Hezekiah removed his high places and his altars, and said to Judah and to Jerusalem, Before this altar you shall do obeisance in Jerusalem?
2KI 18:23 And now, mix in with my master the king of the Assyrians, and I will give to you two thousand horses - if you shall be able to put for yourself a rider upon them.
2KI 18:24 And how will you turn back the face of one toparch of the least of the servants of my master, and hope for yourself upon Egypt for chariots and horsemen?
2KI 18:25 And now, is it without the LORD that we ascended against this place to utterly destroy it? The LORD said to me, Ascend against this land, and utterly destroy it!
2KI 18:26 And Eliakim son of Hilkiah and Shebna and Joah said to Rabshakeh, Speak indeed to your servants in Syrian! For we hear. And do not speak with us in Jewish to the ears of the people upon the wall!
2KI 18:27 And Rabshakeh said to them, Is it to your master, and to you my master sent me to speak these words? Is it not to the men sitting upon the wall, to eat their dung, and to drink their urine with you together?
2KI 18:28 And Rabshakeh stood and yelled with a great voice in Jewish, and spoke, and said, Hear the words of the king - of the great king of the Assyrians!
2KI 18:29 Thus says the king, Let not Hezekiah lift you! For in no way should he be able to rescue you from out of my hand.
2KI 18:30 And let not Hezekiah raise your hope unto the LORD! saying, In rescuing, the LORD will rescue us, and in no way shall this city be delivered into the hand of the king of the Assyrians.
2KI 18:31 Do not listen to Hezekiah! For thus says the king of the Assyrians, Do for me a blessing, and come forth to me, and each shall eat of his grapevine, and each of his fig tree, and each shall drink water of his well;
2KI 18:32 until whenever I should come and should take you into a land as your land, a land of grain, and wine, and bread, and vineyards, a land of olive oil and honey, and you shall live, and not die! And do not listen to Hezekiah! For he deceives you, saying, The LORD shall deliver you.
2KI 18:33 Have by rescuing the gods of the nations rescued each his land from out of the hand of the king of the Assyrians?
2KI 18:34 Where is the god of Hamath, and Arphad? Where is the god of Sepharvaim - Hena, and Ivah? Did they deliver Samaria from out of my hand?
2KI 18:35 Who among all the gods of the lands is the one who rescued his land from out of my hand, that the LORD shall rescue Jerusalem from out of my hand?
2KI 18:36 And they kept silent, and did not answer him a word, because of the commandment of the king, saying, You shall not answer to him.
2KI 18:37 And Eliakim son of Hilkiah the manager entered, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph the one recording, to Hezekiah tearing their garments, and announced to him the words of Rabshakeh.
2KI 19:1 And it came to pass as king Hezekiah heard, that he tore his garments, and put on sackcloth, and entered into the house of the LORD.
2KI 19:2 And he sent Eliakim the manager, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, having put on sackcloths, to Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet.
2KI 19:3 And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah, A day of affliction, and of rebuke, and provocation to anger is this day; for the sons came unto birth pangs, and there is not strength to give birth.
2KI 19:4 If by any means the LORD your God shall hearken to all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of the Assyrians his master sent him to berate the living God, and to reprove by words which the LORD your God heard; that you shall take up a prayer for the remnant being found.
2KI 19:5 And the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
2KI 19:6 And Isaiah said to them, Thus you shall say to your master, Thus says the LORD, You should not fear from the words which you heard, which the servants of the king of the Assyrians blasphemed against me.
2KI 19:7 Behold, I give a spirit to him, and he shall hear a message, and shall return unto his land; and I will cast him down by the broadsword in his land.
2KI 19:8 And Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of the Assyrians waging war against Libnah; for he heard that he departed from Lachish.
2KI 19:9 And he heard concerning Tirhakah king of the Ethiopians, saying, Behold, he comes forth to wage war against you. And he returned, and sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
2KI 19:10 Thus shall you say to Hezekiah king of Judah, Let not your God deceive you in whom you rely upon him, saying, In no way should Jerusalem be delivered up into the hands of the king of the Assyrians.
2KI 19:11 Behold, you heard all as much as the king of the Assyrians did in all the lands, as they utterly destroyed them - and how shall you be rescued?
2KI 19:12 Have the gods of the nations rescued which my fathers utterly destroyed - both Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the sons of Eden in Thelasar?
2KI 19:13 Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim - Hena and Ivah?
2KI 19:14 And Hezekiah took the scrolls from out of the hand of the messengers, and read them. And he ascended into the house of the LORD, and Hezekiah unrolled them before the LORD.
2KI 19:15 And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD, saying, O Lord God of Israel, the one sitting upon the cherubim, you are God alone among all the kingdoms of the earth; you made the heaven and the earth.
2KI 19:16 Lean, O LORD, your ear, and hear! Open, O LORD, your eyes, and behold! And hear the words of Sennacherib, which he sent to berate the living God!
2KI 19:17 For truth, O LORD, the kings of the Assyrians made desolate the nations, and all their land,
2KI 19:18 and put their gods into the fire - for they are not gods, but only the works of the hands of men, wood and stone. And they destroyed them.
2KI 19:19 And now, O LORD our God, deliver us from out of his hand! And they shall know in all the kingdoms of the earth that you are the LORD God alone.
2KI 19:20 And Isaiah son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, I heard what you pray for to me concerning Sennacherib king of the Assyrians.
2KI 19:21 This is the word which the LORD spoke against him; The virgin daughter of Zion treats you with contempt and sneers at you. The daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head over you.
2KI 19:22 Whom have you berated and blasphemed? And against whom have you raised up your voice, and lifted your eyes into the height? even against the holy one of Israel.
2KI 19:23 By the hand of your messengers you have berated the LORD, and said, By the multitude of my chariots I ascended into the height of the mountains, of the sides of Lebanon, and I felled the greatness of his cedar, his chosen cypresses, and I came in the midst of the grove of Carmel.
2KI 19:24 I cooled myself and drank alien waters. And I made quite desolate with the sole of my feet all the rivers of the citadel.
2KI 19:25 Heard you not that far off I made her? From ancient days I formed her, and now I brought her. And she became for haughtiness of fortified cities of combative resettlements.
2KI 19:26 And the ones dwelling in them weakened in the hand. They were alarmed and were disgraced. They became as grass of the field, and as the green pasturage; as tender shoots growing on roofs, and a trampling upon before standing.
2KI 19:27 And of your sitting-down, and of your exiting, and of your entering, and of your rage against me I knew.
2KI 19:28 On account of your being provoked to anger against me, that your indulgence ascended to my ears, and I shall put my hook in your nostrils, and bits in your lips, and I will return you in the way which you came by it.
2KI 19:29 And this is to you the sign. You shall eat this year the things grown by themselves, and in the second year the things rising up, and the third year you shall sow, and you shall reap, and you shall plant vineyards, and you shall eat their fruit.
2KI 19:30 And he shall add to the one being preserved of the house of Judah being left behind as a root below. And he shall produce fruit upward.
2KI 19:31 For from out of Jerusalem shall come forth a vestige, and the one rescuing from out of mount Zion. The zeal of the LORD of the forces shall do this.
2KI 19:32 Therefore thus says the LORD to the king of the Assyrians, He shall not enter into this city, and he shall not shoot an arrow there, and he shall not anticipate it with a shield, nor shall he pour out dirt against it for a seige mound.
2KI 19:33 By the way in which he came by it, he shall return, and into this city he shall not enter, says the LORD.
2KI 19:34 And I shall shield over this city to deliver her because of myself, and because of David my servant.
2KI 19:35 And it came to pass at night, that there came forth an angel of the LORD, and struck among the camp of the Assyrians a hundred eighty-five thousand. And they rose early in the morning. And behold, all dead bodies.
2KI 19:36 And Sennacherib king of the Assyrians departed and went and returned, and lived in Nineveh.
2KI 19:37 And it came to pass of his doing obeisance in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him with a sword. And they escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esar-haddon his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 20:1 In those days Hezekiah was infirm unto death. And Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet entered to him, and said to him, Thus says the LORD, Give charge concerning your house! For you die, and shall not live.
2KI 20:2 And Hezekiah turned his face to the wall, and he prayed to the LORD, saying,
2KI 20:3 O LORD, remember indeed as much as I walked before you in truth, and in a perfect heart! And I did good in your eyes. And Hezekiah wept in a great weeping.
2KI 20:4 And Isaiah was in the courtyard between, and the saying of the LORD came to him, saying,
2KI 20:5 Return! And you shall say to Hezekiah, the one leading my people, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your forefather! I heard your prayer, and I beheld your tears. Behold, I shall heal you on the third day, and you shall ascend into the house of the LORD.
2KI 20:6 And I will add to your days fifteen years; and from the hand of the king of the Assyrians I will deliver you and this city; and I will shield over this city because of myself, and because of David my servant.
2KI 20:7 And Isaiah said, Let them take a dried cluster of figs, and place them upon the sore, and he shall be healed!
2KI 20:8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What is the sign that the LORD shall heal me, and I shall ascend into the house of the LORD on the third day?
2KI 20:9 And Isaiah said, This to you is the sign by the LORD, that the LORD shall do the word which he spoke. Shall the shadow go ten stairs or shall it return ten stairs.
2KI 20:10 And Hezekiah said, It is a light thing for the shadow to lean ten stairs; not thus, but let the shadow return ten stairs to the rear.
2KI 20:11 And Isaiah the prophet yelled out to the LORD, and he returned the shadow on the stairs of Ahaz, in which it went down the ten stairs to the rear.
2KI 20:12 In that time Berodach Baladan the son of Baladan king of Babylon sent letters and gifts to Hezekiah, for he heard that Hezekiah was infirm.
2KI 20:13 And Hezekiah rejoiced over them. And he showed to them all the house of the spices - the silver, and the gold, the aromatics, and the good olive oil, and the house of his weapons, and all as much as was found in his treasuries. There was not a place which Hezekiah did not show to them in his house, and in all under his authority.
2KI 20:14 And Isaiah the prophet entered to Hezekiah the king, and said to him, What did these men say, and from what place came they to you? And Hezekiah said, From a land at a distance - they came to me from Babylon.
2KI 20:15 And he said, What did they behold in your house? And Hezekiah said, All as much is in my house they beheld. There was not anything in my house which I did not show to them, and in my treasuries.
2KI 20:16 And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD!
2KI 20:17 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and there shall be taken away all the things in your house, and as much as your fathers treasured up until this day into Babylon. There shall not be left behind a thing, said the LORD.
2KI 20:18 And from your sons coming forth from you, whom you procreated, they shall take them, and they will be eunuchs in the house of the king of Babylon.
2KI 20:19 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of the LORD is good which he spoke, let there be peace and righteousness in my days!
2KI 20:20 And the rest of the words of Hezekiah, and all as much as he did, and all his dominations, and the fountain, and the aqueduct, and how he brought the water into the city - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 20:21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers. And he was entombed in the city of David. And Manasseh his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 21:1 Manasseh was a son being twelve years old in his taking reign, and fifty and five years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Hephzi-bah.
2KI 21:2 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, and went according to the abominations of the nations, whom the LORD removed from in front of the sons of Israel.
2KI 21:3 And he returned and built the high places which Hezekiah his father tore down; and he reestablished an altar to Baal, and made the sacred groves as did Ahab king of Israel; and did obeisance to all the military of the heaven, and served to them.
2KI 21:4 And he built an altar in the house of the LORD, in which he said LORD, In Jerusalem I will establish my name.
2KI 21:5 And he built altars to all the military of the heaven in the two courtyards of the house of the LORD.
2KI 21:6 And he led his sons through fire, and prognosticated, and foretold, and appointed ones who deliver oracles, and diviners; to multiply to do the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
2KI 21:7 And he put the carving of the sacred grove in the house, in which the LORD said to David, and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, in which I chose from out of all the tribes of Israel, that I will put my name there into the eon.
2KI 21:8 And I will not proceed to shake the foot of Israel from the land which I gave to their fathers; only if they should guard to do according to all which I gave charge to them - according to every law which Moses my servant gave charge to them.
2KI 21:9 And they hearkened not. And Manasseh misled them to do the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD above the nations which the LORD removed in front of the sons of Israel.
2KI 21:10 And the LORD spoke by the hand of his servants the prophets, saying,
2KI 21:11 On account of as much as Manasseh king of Judah did these wicked abominations, according to all as much as the Amorite did before him, and even indeed led Judah into sin by his idols.
2KI 21:12 Is it not so? Thus says the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I bring evils upon Jerusalem and Judah, so that all hearing, it shall sound in both of his ears.
2KI 21:13 And I will stretch out over Jerusalem the measure of Samaria, and the weight of the house of Ahab. And I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a writing tablet, and overturns it upon its face.
2KI 21:14 And I will wipe away the vestige of my inheritance, and I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies; and they will be for ravaging and for plunder by all their enemies;
2KI 21:15 because of as much as they did the wicked thing in my eyes, and were provoking me to anger from the day which I led their fathers from out of Egypt, and until this day.
2KI 21:16 And indeed Manasseh poured out exceedingly much innocent blood, until of which he filled Jerusalem of it mouth to mouth; outside of his sins which he led Judah into sin - to do the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD.
2KI 21:17 And the rest of the words of Manasseh, and all as much as he did, and his sin which he sinned - behold are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 21:18 And Manasseh slept with his fathers. And they entombed him in the garden of his house, in the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 21:19 Amon was a son being twenty and two years old in his taking reign. And two years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Meshullemeth, daughter of Haruz from out of Jotbah.
2KI 21:20 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, as Manasseh his father did.
2KI 21:21 And he went in every way in which his father went. And he slaved to the idols whom his father slaved, and did obeisance to them.
2KI 21:22 And he abandoned the LORD God of his fathers, and went not in the way of the LORD.
2KI 21:23 And the servants of Amon confederated against him, and they killed the king in his house.
2KI 21:24 And the people of the land struck the ones confederating against king Amon. And the people of the land gave reign to Josiah his son instead of him.
2KI 21:25 And the rest of the words of Amon, as much as he did - behold, are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 21:26 And they entombed him in his tomb, in the garden of Uzza. And Josiah his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 22:1 Josiah was a son being eight years old in his taking reign, and thirty and one year s he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Jedidah, daughter of Adaiah of Boscath.
2KI 22:2 And he did upright in the eyes of the LORD, and went in every way of David his forefather. He did not separate to the right nor left.
2KI 22:3 And it came to pass in the eighteenth year to king Josiah, the king sent Shaphan son of Azaliah, son of Meshullam, the scribe of the house of the LORD, saying,
2KI 22:4 Ascend to Hilkiah the great priest, and set a seal upon the money being carried into the house of the LORD, which the ones guarding the money gathered together from the people!
2KI 22:5 And let them put it into the hand of the ones doing the works, of the ones being ordained in the house of the LORD! And he gave it to the ones doing the works in the house of the LORD, to strengthen the breach of the house -
2KI 22:6 to the fabricators, and to the builders, and to the stonemasons, and to acquire wood and quarried stones to fortify the breach of the house.
2KI 22:7 Only did not 1they 3call 5to account for the money being given to them, for they act in trust.
2KI 22:8 And Hilkiah the great priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I found a scroll of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gave to Shaphan the scroll, and he read it.
2KI 22:9 And Shapan entered to king Josiah. And he turned to the king for a word, and said, Your servants cast the silver being found in the house of the LORD, and they put it in the hand of the ones doing the works being ordained in the house of the LORD.
2KI 22:10 And Shaphan the scribe reported to the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest gave to me a scroll. And Shaphan read it before the king.
2KI 22:11 And it came to pass, as the king heard the words of the scroll of the law, that he tore his garments.
2KI 22:12 And the king gave charge to Hilkiah the priest, and to Ahikam son of Shaphan, and to Achbor son of Michaiah, and to Shaphan the scribe, and to Asahiah the servant of the king, saying,
2KI 22:13 Go, seek after the LORD for me, and for all my people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this scroll being found! For great is the anger of the LORD burning away against us, for our fathers hearkened not of the words of this scroll, to do according to all the things being written concerning us.
2KI 22:14 And Hilkiah the priest went, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asahiah to Huldah the prophetess, wife of Shallum son of Tikvah, son of Harhas, the keeper of the cloaks. And she dwelt in Jerusalem in Masena. And they spoke to her.
2KI 22:15 And she said to them, Thus says the LORD the God of Israel, Speak to the man sending you to me,
2KI 22:16 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I bring bad things against this place, and against the ones dwelling in it - all the words of the scroll of which the king of Judah read;
2KI 22:17 because they abandoned me, and burned incense to other gods, that they should provoke me to anger in all the works of their hands; that my rage shall burn against this place, and shall not be extinguished.
2KI 22:18 And to the king of Judah sending you to inquire of the LORD, thus you shall say to him, Thus says the LORD God of Israel concerning the words which you heard;
2KI 22:19 for because your heart was tender, and you felt shame in front of me, as you hear as much as I spoke concerning this place, and concerning the ones dwelling it, to be for extinction and for a curse, and you tore your garments, and you wept before me - even indeed I heard, says the LORD.
2KI 22:20 Is it not so? Behold, I add you to your fathers, and you shall be brought into your tomb in peace. And your eyes shall not see all the bad things which I bring against this place. And they returned to the king the word.
2KI 23:1 And the king sent, and brought together to him all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
2KI 23:2 And the king ascended to the house of the LORD, and all the men of Judah, and all the ones dwelling Jerusalem with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people from small and unto great. And he read in their ears all the words of the scroll of the covenant being found in the house of the LORD.
2KI 23:3 And the king stood near the column, and ordained the covenant before the LORD, to go after the LORD, and to guard his commandments, and his testimonies, and his orders with a whole heart, and with a whole life, to raise up the words of this covenant being written in this scroll. And he established all the people in the covenant.
2KI 23:4 And the king gave charge to Hilkiah the great priest, and to the priests being second, and to the ones guarding the doorpost, to bring out from the temple of the LORD all the items which they made to Baal, and to the sacred grove, and to all the military of the heaven. And he incinerated them outside Jerusalem in the plain of Kidron. And he took their dust into Beth-el.
2KI 23:5 And he incinerated the idolatrous priests, of whom the kings of Judah established to burn incense in the high places, and in the cities of Judah, and in the surroundings of Jerusalem, and the ones burning incense to Baal, and to the sun, and to the moon, and to the Mazuroth, and to all the military of the heaven.
2KI 23:6 And he brought forth the sacred grove carving from out of the house of the LORD outside of Jerusalem, unto the rushing stream Kidron, and incinerated it at the rushing stream Kidron, and ground it fine as dust. And he tossed its dust into the tombs of the sons of the people.
2KI 23:7 And he demolished the house of the male prostitutes in the house of the LORD, in which the women wove apparel there for the sacred grove.
2KI 23:8 And he brought in all the priests from out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests were burning incense there - from Geba and unto Beer-sheba, and demolished the high places by the door of the gate of Joshua ruler of the city, of the ones at the left sides of a man at the gate of the city.
2KI 23:9 Only the priests of the high places ascended not to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, for they ate unleavened breads in the midst of their brothers.
2KI 23:10 And he defiled Topheth, the one in the ravine of the son of Hinnom, for a man to not lead his son and his daughter in fire to Molech.
2KI 23:11 And he incinerated the horses which the kings of Judah presented to the sun, in the entrance of the house of the LORD, towards the treasury room of Nathan the eunuch of the king, of the one in the compound. And the chariot of the sun he incinerated by fire.
2KI 23:12 And the altars upon the roof of the upper room of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah made, and the altars which Manasseh made in the two courtyards of the house of the LORD, the king demolished, and tore down from there, and tossed their dust into the rushing stream Kidron.
2KI 23:13 And the house upon the face of Jerusalem from out of the right of the mount of Mosoath, which Solomon king of Israel built to Ashtoreth the loathsome thing of the Sidonians, and to Chemosh the loathsome thing of Moab, and to Molech the abomination of the sons of Ammon, the king defiled.
2KI 23:14 And he broke the monuments, and cut down the sacred groves, and filled their places of bones of men.
2KI 23:15 And indeed the high altar in Beth-el, which Jeroboam son of Nebat made, who led Israel into sin, also indeed he tore down that high altar, and broke its stones, and made them fine into dust, and incinerated the sacred grove.
2KI 23:16 And Josiah turned and saw the tombs of the ones being there in the mount. And he sent and took the bones from out of the tombs, and incinerated them upon the altar, and defiled it, according to the saying of the LORD which the man of God spoke when Jeroboam stood near the altar in the holiday. And turning Josiah lifted his eyes upon the burying-place of the man of God speaking these words.
2KI 23:17 And he said, What is that high rock which I see? And the men of the city said to him, The grave of the man of God coming from out of Judah, and calling these words which you did against the altar in Beth-el.
2KI 23:18 And he said, Let him alone! No one move his bones! And he preserved his bones, with the bones of the prophet having come from out of Samaria.
2KI 23:19 And indeed all the houses of the high places in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel made to provoke the LORD to anger, Josiah removed, and did to them according to all the works which he did in Beth-el.
2KI 23:20 And he sacrificed all the priests of the high places being there upon the altars, and incinerated the bones of the men upon them, and returned to Jerusalem.
2KI 23:21 And the king gave charge to all the people, saying, Observe the passover to the LORD your God, as it is written in the scroll of this covenant!
2KI 23:22 For there did not take place according to this passover from the days of the judges that judged Israel, and in all the days of the kings of Israel, and of the kings of Judah,
2KI 23:23 for only in the eighteenth year of king Josiah this passover to the LORD took place in Jerusalem.
2KI 23:24 And indeed the soothsayers, and the diviners, and the teraphim, and the idols, and all the loathsome things taking place in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, king Josiah removed, that the words of the law should be established, of the ones being written upon the scroll which Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD.
2KI 23:25 There was not a king before him likened to him, who turned towards the LORD with his entire heart, and with his entire life, and with his entire strength, according to all the law of Moses; and after him rose up not one like him.
2KI 23:26 Only the LORD did not turn from the great rage of his anger, of which his anger was enraged against Judah, against all the provocations to anger which Manasseh provoked him to anger.
2KI 23:27 And the LORD said, And indeed Judah I shall remove from my face, as I removed Israel, and I will thrust away this city which I chose - Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, My name will be there.
2KI 23:28 And the rest of the words of Josiah, and all as much as he did - are these not written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 23:29 In his days ascended Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt against the king of the Assyrians at the river Euphrates. And Josiah the king went for a meeting against him. And Necho killed him in Megiddo, in him seeing him.
2KI 23:30 And his servants conducted him dead in Megiddo. And they led him into Jerusalem, and entombed him in his tomb in the city of David. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz son of Josiah, and anointed him, and gave him reign instead of his father.
2KI 23:31 Jehoahaz was a son being twenty and three years old in his taking reign; and three months he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Hamutal, daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
2KI 23:32 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, according to all as much as his fathers did.
2KI 23:33 And Pharaoh Necho moved him to Riblah in the land of Hamath, so as to not reign in Jerusalem. And he put a penalty against the land - a hundred talents of silver, and ten talents of gold.
2KI 23:34 And Pharaoh Necho put to reign over them Eliakim son of Josiah instead of Josiah his father, and turned his name into Jehoiakim. And he took Jehoahaz, and led him away into Egypt, and he died there.
2KI 23:35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but he assessed the land to give the money by the mouth of Pharaoh - each man according to his assessed value. They gave the silver and the gold with the people of the land, to give to Pharaoh Necho.
2KI 23:36 Jehoiakim was a son being twenty and five years old in his taking reign; and eleven years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Zebudah, daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
2KI 23:37 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, according to all as much as his fathers did.
2KI 24:1 In his days Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon ascended, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years. And he turned and annulled allegiance to him.
2KI 24:2 And the LORD sent against him the armed bands of the Chaldeans, and the armed bands of Syrians, and the armed bands of Moab, and the armed bands of the sons of Ammon. And he sent them against Judah to prevail against it, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by the hand of his servants the prophets.
2KI 24:3 Only a rage of the LORD was against Judah, to remove it from in front of him, on account of the sins of Manasseh, according to all as much as he did;
2KI 24:4 and indeed for the innocent blood which he poured out, and filled Jerusalem of innocent blood; and the LORD did not want to atone.
2KI 24:5 And the rest of the words of Jehoaikim, and all as much as he did - behold, are not these written upon the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2KI 24:6 And Jehoiakim slept with his fathers. And Jehoiachin his son reigned instead of him.
2KI 24:7 And the king of Egypt proceeded not any longer to come forth from out of his land; for the king of Babylon took from the rushing stream of Egypt unto the river Euphrates all as much as was of the king of Egypt.
2KI 24:8 Jehoiachin was a son being eighteen years old in his taking reign, and three months he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name to his mother was Nehushta, daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
2KI 24:9 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, according to all as much as his father did.
2KI 24:10 In that time Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon ascended to Jerusalem, and the city came to be encompassed about.
2KI 24:11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon entered unto the city, and his servants assaulted it.
2KI 24:12 And Jehoiachin king of Judah came forth to the king of Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his rulers, and his eunuchs. And the king of Babylon took them in the eighth year of his kingdom.
2KI 24:13 And he brought forth from there all the treasures of the ones in the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the house of the king. And he cut off all the items of gold which Solomon the king of Israel made for the temple of the LORD, according to the saying of the LORD.
2KI 24:14 And he resettled Jerusalem, and all the rulers, and all the mighty ones with strength, into captivity - ten thousand, and every fabricator, and the one so consigned. They did not leave any behind except of the ones being in need of the people of the land.
2KI 24:15 And he resettled Jehoiachin into Babylon, and the mother of the king, and the wives of the king, and his eunuchs. And the strong ones of the land he took away for resettlement from out of Jerusalem unto Babylon.
2KI 24:16 And all the mighty men - seven thousand, and the fabricator, and the one so consigned - thousands of all the mighty men in strength making war, even the king of Babylon led them in a displacement unto Babylon.
2KI 24:17 And the king of Babylon gave reign to Mattaniah brother of his father instead of him. And he placed the name Zedekiah to him.
2KI 24:18 Zedekiah was a son being twenty and one years old in his taking reign. And eleven years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name to his mother was Hamutal, daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
2KI 24:19 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD, according to all as much as Jehoiakim did.
2KI 24:20 For by the rage of the LORD the rage was on Jerusalem and on Judah, until he threw them from his face. And Zedekiah annulled allegiance to the king of Babylon.
2KI 25:1 And it came to pass in the ninth year of his kingdom, in the tenth month, on the tenth of the month, came Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and all his force, against Jerusalem. And he camped about it, and built upon it a rampart round about.
2KI 25:2 And the city became for being encompassed about until the eleventh year of Zedekiah the king, the ninth of the month.
2KI 25:3 And the hunger grew in strength in the city, and there was not bread to the people of the land.
2KI 25:4 And the city was torn through, and all the men of war went forth by night in the way of the gate between the walls, which is of the garden of the king. (And the Chaldeans were upon the city round about;) and they went the way unto the descent.
2KI 25:5 And the force of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and overtook him by the descent of Jericho; and all his force were dispersed from about him.
2KI 25:6 And they seized the king, and they led him to the king of Babylon in Riblah; and he spoke judgment against him.
2KI 25:7 And he slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and the eyes of Zedekiah he blinded, and tied him in shackles, and led him unto Babylon.
2KI 25:8 And in the fifth month, the seventh of the month, this is the nineteenth year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, came Nabuzar-adan, the chief guard, the one standing in the presence of the king of Babylon, into Jerusalem.
2KI 25:9 And he burned the house of the LORD, and the house of the king, and all the houses of Jerusalem; and every great house he burned by fire.
2KI 25:10 And the wall of Jerusalem round about the force of the Chaldeans tore down.
2KI 25:11 And the extra ones of the people being left behind in the city, and the ones falling in who fell in with the king of Babylon, and the rest of the support Nabuzar-adan the chief guard removed.
2KI 25:12 And from the poor of the land the chief guard left behind for vine dressers and farmers.
2KI 25:13 And the columns of brass in the house of the LORD, and the bases, and the brass sea in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans cut up, and carried their brass unto Babylon.
2KI 25:14 And the kettles, and the shovels, and the bowls, and the incense pans, and all the items of brass in which they officiated with them, he took.
2KI 25:15 And the censers, and the bowls of gold, and the ones of silver, the chief guard took.
2KI 25:16 The two columns, and the one sea, and the bases which Solomon made for the house of the LORD - there was not a measuring the weight of the brass of all the items.
2KI 25:17 Eighteen cubits was the height of the one column, and the capital upon it of brass. Three cubits was the height of the capital. And the lattice work and pomegranates upon the capital round about were entirely of brass. And according to these it was to the second column upon the lattice work.
2KI 25:18 And the chief guard took Seraiah the foremost priest, and Zephaniah the second rank priest, and the three guarding the money;
2KI 25:19 and from out of the city he took one eunuch who was supervisor of the men warriors, and five men of the ones appearing in front of the king, of the ones being found in the city, and the scribe of the ruler of the force, the one arraying the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land being found in the city.
2KI 25:20 And Nabuzar-adan the chief guard took them, and led them away to the king of Babylon in Riblah.
2KI 25:21 And the king of Babylon smote them, and killed them in Riblah in the land of Hamath. And he resettled Judah from its land.
2KI 25:22 And over the people being left behind in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon left behind, he placed over it Gedaliah son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan.
2KI 25:23 And all the rulers of the force heard, they and their men, that the king of Babylon placed Gedaliah in charge. And they came to Gedaliah in Mizpah - even Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and Johanan son of Careah, and Seraiah son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah son of the Maachathite, they and their men.
2KI 25:24 And Gedaliah swore by an oath to them, and to their men, and said to them, Do not fear the passing by incursion. of the Chaldeans! Settle in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it will be well to you!
2KI 25:25 And it came to pass in the seventh month, came Ishmael son of Nethaniah, son of Elishama, of the seed of the kingdom, and ten men with him. And he struck Gedaliah and he died, and the Jews, and the Chaldeans who were with him in Mizpah.
2KI 25:26 And all the people rose up from small unto great, and the rulers of the force, and entered into Egypt; for they feared from the face of the Chaldeans.
2KI 25:27 And it came to pass in the thirtieth and seventh year of the resettlement of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, seventh and twentieth day of the month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon raised up high in the first year of his kingdom the head of Jehoiachin the king of Judah, and led him from out of the house of the prison.
2KI 25:28 And he spoke with him for good, and put his throne above the thrones of the kings with him in Babylon.
2KI 25:29 And he changed the garments of his prison, and he ate bread always in his presence all the days of his life.
2KI 25:30 And his feasting was a feasting always given to him from out of the house of the king - a day's reckoning in his day, all the days of his life.
1CH 1:1 Adam, Seth, Enosh,
1CH 1:2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jered,
1CH 1:3 Enoch, Mathusala, Lamech,
1CH 1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, Japheth.
1CH 1:5 The sons of Japheth - Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
1CH 1:6 And the sons of Gomer - Ashchenaz and Riphath, and Togarmah.
1CH 1:7 And the sons of Javan - Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim and Dodanim.
1CH 1:8 And the sons of Ham - Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
1CH 1:9 And the sons of Cush - Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raama - Sheba and Dedan.
1CH 1:10 And Cush procreated Nimrod - this one began to be a giant on the earth.
1CH 1:11 And Mizraim procreated the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, the Naphuhim
1CH 1:12 And the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim (from where the Philistines came forth from there), and the Caphthorim.
1CH 1:13 And Canaan procreated Sidon his firstborn, and Heth.
1CH 1:14 And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
1CH 1:15 and the Hivite, and the Archite, and the Sinite,
1CH 1:16 and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
1CH 1:17 The sons of Shem - Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
1CH 1:18 And Arphaxad procreated Cainan, and Cainan procreated Shelah, and Shelah procreated Eber.
1CH 1:19 And to Eber two sons were procreated. The name to the one was Peleg; for in his days the earth was portioned. And the name to his brother was Joktan.
1CH 1:20 And Joktan procreated Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
1CH 1:21 and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
1CH 1:22 and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
1CH 1:23 and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these are sons of Joktan.
1CH 1:24 Shem, Arphaxad - Cainan, Shelah,
1CH 1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu,
1CH 1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah,
1CH 1:27 Abram - he was Abraham.
1CH 1:28 Sons of Abraham - Isaac and Ishmael.
1CH 1:29 These are their genealogies. First-born of Ishmael - Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Adbeel and Mibsam,
1CH 1:30 Mishma and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
1CH 1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
1CH 1:32 And sons of Keturah, concubine of Abraham - and she bore Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan - Sheba and Dedan.
1CH 1:33 And the sons of Midian - Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were sons of Keturah.
1CH 1:34 And Abraham procreated Isaac. The sons of Isaac - Esau and Israel.
1CH 1:35 The sons of Esau - Eliphaz, and Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
1CH 1:36 The sons of Eliphaz - Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
1CH 1:37 And the sons of Reuel - Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
1CH 1:38 And the sons of Seir - Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan.
1CH 1:39 And the sons of Lotan - Hori, and Honam; and the sister of Lotan - Timna.
1CH 1:40 The sons of Shobal - Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon - Aiah, and Anah.
1CH 1:41 The sons of Anah - Dishon. And the sons of Dishon - Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
1CH 1:42 And the sons of Ezer - Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan - Uz and Aran.
1CH 1:43 And these are the kings reigning in the land of Edom before a king reigned among the sons of Israel. Bela son of Beor. And the name of his city was Dinhabah.
1CH 1:44 And Bela died, and reigned instead of him - Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah.
1CH 1:45 And Jobab died, and reigned instead of him - Husham of the land of the Temanites.
1CH 1:46 And Husham died, and reigned instead of him - Hadad son of Bedad, the one striking Midian in the field of Moab. And the name of his city was Avith.
1CH 1:47 And Hadad died, and reigned instead of him - Samlah of Masrekah.
1CH 1:48 And Samlah died, and reigned instead of him - Shaul of Rehoboth of the river.
1CH 1:49 And Shaul died, and reigned instead of him - Baal-hanan son of Achbor.
1CH 1:50 And Baal-hanan died, and reigned instead of him - Hadad. And the name of his city was Pai. And the name of his wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.
1CH 1:51 And Hadad died. And The princes of Edom were - prince Timnah, prince Aliah, prince Jetheth,
1CH 1:52 prince Aholibamah, prince Elah, prince Pinon,
1CH 1:53 prince Kenaz, prince Teman, prince Mibzar,
1CH 1:54 prince Magdiel, prince Iram. These were the princes of Edom.
1CH 2:1 These are of the sons of Israel - Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
1CH 2:2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
1CH 2:3 Sons of Judah - Er, and Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him from the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er the first-born of Judah was wicked before the LORD, and he killed him.
1CH 2:4 And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore to him Pharez and Zerah. All these sons of Judah - five.
1CH 2:5 Sons of Pharez - Hezron and Hamul.
1CH 2:6 And sons of Zerah - Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara, all these - five.
1CH 2:7 And sons of Carmi - Achan the disturber of Israel, who broke contract in the offering for consumption.
1CH 2:8 And sons of Ethan - Azariah.
1CH 2:9 And sons of Hezron, the ones who were born to him - Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.
1CH 2:10 And Ram procreated Amminadab; and Amminadab procreated Nahshon, ruler of the house of Judah;
1CH 2:11 and Nahshon procreated Salma, and Salma procreated Boaz,
1CH 2:12 and Boaz procreated Obed, and Obed procreated Jesse,
1CH 2:13 and Jesse procreated his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third,
1CH 2:14 Nethaneel the fourth, and Raddai the fifth,
1CH 2:15 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh,
1CH 2:16 and their sisters - Zeruiah, and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah - Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel - these three.
1CH 2:17 And Abigail bore Amasa; and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmealite.
1CH 2:18 And Caleb the son of Hezron took Azubah as wife, and Jerioth; and these are her sons - Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
1CH 2:19 And Azubah died, and Caleb took for himself Ephrath, and she bore to him Hur.
1CH 2:20 And Hur procreated Uri, and Uri procreated Bezaleel.
1CH 2:21 And after this Hezron entered to the daughter of Machir father of Gilead, and he took her, and he was sixty years old; and she bore to him Segub.
1CH 2:22 And Segub procreated Jair; and there were to him twenty and three cities in the land of Gilead.
1CH 2:23 And he took Geshur and Aram, the towns of Jair, from them, with Kenath and her towns - sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir father of Gilead.
1CH 2:24 And after the dying of Hezron, Caleb came into Ephratah. And the wife of Hezron was Abiah, and she bore to him Ashur father of Tekoa.
1CH 2:25 And these were the sons of Jerahmeel the first-born of Hezron - first-born Ram, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah.
1CH 2:26 And there was another wife to Jerahmeel, and her name was Atarah; she is the mother of Onam.
1CH 2:27 And the sons of Ram the first-born of Jerahmeel were, Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.
1CH 2:28 And the sons of Onam were - Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai - Nadab and Abishur.
1CH 2:29 And the name to the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bore to him Ahban and Molid.
1CH 2:30 And the sons of Nadab - Seled and Appaim. And Seled died not having children.
1CH 2:31 And the sons of Appaim - Ishi. And the sons of Ishi - Sheshan. And the sons of Sheshan - Ahlai.
1CH 2:32 And the sons of Jada brother of Shammai - Jether and Jonathan. And Jether died not having children.
1CH 2:33 And the sons of Jonathan - Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
1CH 2:34 And there were not sons to Sheshan, but only daughters. And to Sheshan there was an Egyptian servant, and the name to him was Jarha.
1CH 2:35 And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant for a wife; and she bore to him Attai.
1CH 2:36 And Attai procreated Nathan, and Nathan procreated Zabad,
1CH 2:37 and Zabad procreated Ephlal, and Ephlal procreated Obed,
1CH 2:38 and Obed procreated Jehu, and Jehu procreated Azariah,
1CH 2:39 and Azariah procreated Helez, and Helez procreated Eleasah,
1CH 2:40 and Eleasah procreated Sisamai, and Sisamai procreated Shallum,
1CH 2:41 and Shallum procreated Jekamiah, Jekamiah procreated Elishama.
1CH 2:42 And the sons of Caleb brother of Jerahmeel - Mesha his first-born, he is father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah father of Hebron.
1CH 2:43 And the sons of Hebron - Korah, and Tappua, and Rekem, and Shema.
1CH 2:44 And Shema procreated Raham, father of Jorkoam. And Rekem procreated Shammai.
1CH 2:45 And the son of Shammai - Maon. And Moan was father of Beth-zur.
1CH 2:46 And Ephah the concubine of Caleb bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran procreated Gazez.
1CH 2:47 And the sons of Jahdai - Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
1CH 2:48 And Maachah the concubine of Caleb bore Sheber and Tirhanah;
1CH 2:49 and she bore Shaaph father of Madmannah, and Sheva father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsa.
1CH 2:50 These were the sons of Caleb sons Hur the first-born of Ephratah - Shobal the father of Kirjath-jearim,
1CH 2:51 Salma father of Beth-lehem, Haareph father of Beth-gader.
1CH 2:52 And these were the sons to Shobal father of Kirjath-jearim - Haroeh, and Aisi, and Ammanith,
1CH 2:53 and Oumasphae the city of Jair. Aithalim, and Miphithim, and Esamathim, and Emasaraim. From out of these came forth the Zareathitees, and the Eshtaulites.
1CH 2:54 And the sons of Salma - Beth-lehem and the Netophathites, Ataroth of the house of Joab, and half of the Menahethites, the Zorites.
1CH 2:55 And the families of the scribes dwelling in Jabez - the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites coming from out of Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab.
1CH 3:1 And these were the sons of David being born to him in Hebron; the first-born, Amnon to Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second, Daniel to Abigail the Carmelitess;
1CH 3:2 the third, Absalom son of Maachah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah son of Haggith;
1CH 3:3 the fifth, Shephatiah to Abital; the sixth, Ithream to Eglah his wife.
1CH 3:4 Six were born to him in Hebron; and he reigned there seven years and six months. And thirty and three years he reigned in Jerusalem.
1CH 3:5 And these were born to him in Jerusalem - Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, to Bathsheba daughter of Ammiel.
1CH 3:6 And Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,
1CH 3:7 and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
1CH 3:8 and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet - nine.
1CH 3:9 All these were sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister.
1CH 3:10 Sons of Solomon - Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
1CH 3:11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
1CH 3:12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
1CH 3:13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
1CH 3:14 Amon his son, Josiah his son.
1CH 3:15 And the sons of Josiah - first-born Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
1CH 3:16 And the sons of Jehoiakim - Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
1CH 3:17 And the sons of Jeconiah - Assir, Salathiel his son,
1CH 3:18 and Melchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, and Jecamiah, and Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
1CH 3:19 And the sons of Pedaiah - Zerubbabel, and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel - Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister.
1CH 3:20 And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed - five.
1CH 3:21 And the sons of Hananiah - Pelatiah, and Jesaiah his son, Rephaiah his son, Arnan his son, Obadiah his son, Shechaniah his son.
1CH 3:22 And the sons of Shechaniah - Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah - Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat - six.
1CH 3:23 And the sons of Neariah - Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam - three.
1CH 3:24 And the sons of Elioenai - Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani - seven.
1CH 4:1 The sons of Judah - Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi and Hur, and Shobal.
1CH 4:2 And Reaiah son of Shobal procreated Jahath; and Jahath procreated Ahumai and Lahad. These are the genealogies of the Zorathites.
1CH 4:3 And these were the sons of Etam - Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister - Hazelelponi.
1CH 4:4 And Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Husha. These are the sons of Hur first-born of Ephratah, father of Beth-lehem.
1CH 4:5 And to Ashur father of Tekoe were two wives - Helah and Naarah.
1CH 4:6 And Naarah bore to him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. All these were sons of Naarah.
1CH 4:7 And the sons of Helah - Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.
1CH 4:8 And Cos engendered Anub, and Zobedah, they are the families of the brother of Aharhel the son of Harum.
1CH 4:9 And Jabez was honorable above his brothers. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, For I gave birth in a downfall.
1CH 4:10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, If by blessing you should bless me, and multiply my borders, and your hand might be with me, and you should execute knowledge to not abase me - good. And God brought all as much as he asked for.
1CH 4:11 And Chelub brother of Shuah engendered Mehir - this one was father of Eshton.
1CH 4:12 And Eshton engendered Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah father of Ir-nahash. These were the men of Rechah.
1CH 4:13 And the sons of Kenez - Othniel, and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel - Hathath.
1CH 4:14 And Meonothai engendered Ophrah. And Seraiah engendered Joab, father of Ge-charashim; for they were fabricators.
1CH 4:15 And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh- Iru, Elah, and Naan. And the sons of Elah - Kenaz.
1CH 4:16 And the sons of Jehaleleel - Ziph, and Ziphah, and Tirah, and Asareel.
1CH 4:17 And the sons of Ezra - Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon. And Jether engendered Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
1CH 4:18 And his wife Jehudijah bore to him Jered father of Gedor, and Heber father of Socho, and Jekuthiel father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took.
1CH 4:19 And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham, father of Keila the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.
1CH 4:20 And the sons of Shimon - Amnon, and Rinnah, the son of Hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi - Zoheth, the sons of Zoheth.
1CH 4:21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were, Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the generations of the families of Ephradabak to the house of Ashbea,
1CH 4:22 and Jokim, and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, the ones who exercised authority in Moab. And they returned to Lehem. And the words are old.
1CH 4:23 These are the potters dwelling in Netaim and Gadera, with the king in his works. They grew in strength and dwelt there.
1CH 4:24 The sons of Simeon - Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
1CH 4:25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
1CH 4:26 The sons of Mishma - Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei his son.
1CH 4:27 And to Shimei there were sixteen sons, and six daughters; and to his brothers there were not many sons, and among all their families they multiplied not as the sons of Judah.
1CH 4:28 And they dwelt in Beer-sheba, and Moladah, and Hazar-shual,
1CH 4:29 and in Bilhah, and in Ezem, and in Tolad,
1CH 4:30 and in Bethuel, and in Hormah, and in Ziklag,
1CH 4:31 and in Beth-marcaboth and Hazar-susim, and in Beth-birei, and in Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of king David.
1CH 4:32 And their properties were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan - five cities.
1CH 4:33 And all their properties round about these cities unto Baal. This is their possession, and their distribution.
1CH 4:34 And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah,
1CH 4:35 and Joel, and Jehu son of Josibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel,
1CH 4:36 and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,
1CH 4:37 and Ziza son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah -
1CH 4:38 these are the ones going by names of the rulers in their generations. And in the houses of their families they were multiplied into a multitude.
1CH 4:39 And they went to coming into Gerara, unto according to east of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
1CH 4:40 And they found fertile and good pasture, and the land broadly spaced before them, and in peace and rest; for the ones dwelling there before were of the sons of Ham.
1CH 4:41 And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck their tents, and the Minaians being found there. And they devoted them to consumption until this day. And they lived there instead of them, for pasture to their flocks was there.
1CH 4:42 And some of them of the sons of Simeon went forth unto mount Seir - five hundred men, and Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi, their rulers.
1CH 4:43 And they struck the vestige surviving of Amalek, and they dwelt there until this day.
1CH 5:1 And the sons of Reuben first-born of Israel - for he was the first-born, but in the profaning the strewn bed of his father, his rights of the first-born was given to the sons of Joseph son of Israel, and he did not trace descent for rights of the first-born;
1CH 5:2 for Judah was mighty in strength among his brothers, and a leader came from him, but the rights of the firstborn was to Joseph -
1CH 5:3 the sons of Reuben first-born of Israel - Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
1CH 5:4 The sons of Joel - Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
1CH 5:5 Michah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
1CH 5:6 Beerah his son, whom Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria resettled - he was ruler of Reuben.
1CH 5:7 And his brothers of his fatherland in their distribution according to their generations - the ruler Jeiel, and Zechariah,
1CH 5:8 and Bela son of Azaz, son of Shema, son of Joel - he dwelt in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baal-meon.
1CH 5:9 And he dwelt according to the east unto the entrance of the wilderness of the river Euphrates; for their cattle multiplied in the land of Gilead.
1CH 5:10 And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, and they fell by their hand; and they dwelt in their tents upon all the face of the east parts of Gilead.
1CH 5:11 And the sons of Gad dwelt over against them at the land of Bashan unto Salcah.
1CH 5:12 Joel the ruler, and Shapham the second, and Jaanai was the scribe, and Shaphat in Bashan,
1CH 5:13 and their brothers according to the houses of their families - Michael, Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber - seven.
1CH 5:14 These are the sons of Abihail son of Huri, son of Jaroah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of Jeshishai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz,
1CH 5:15 son of Abdiel, son of Guni, ruler of the house of the families.
1CH 5:16 And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in all the places round about Sharon, unto the exit.
1CH 5:17 All traced descent in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam II king of Israel.
1CH 5:18 The sons of Reuben, and Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, of the sons of the forces, men lifting shield and sword, and stretching the bow, and being taught war - forty and four thousand and seven hundred and sixty, going forth unto the battle array.
1CH 5:19 And they made war with the Hagarites, and Jeturites, and Nepishites, and Nodabeans.
1CH 5:20 And they were called to aid over them, and the Hagarites were delivered up into their hand, and all the ones with them; for to God they yelled in the battle, and he heeded them; for they relied upon him.
1CH 5:21 And they captured their possessions; camels - fifty thousand, and sheep - two hundred and fifty thousand, and donkeys - two thousand, and lives of men - a hundred thousand.
1CH 5:22 For many fell slain, because the war was of God. And they dwelt there instead of them until the resettlement.
1CH 5:23 And the half of the tribe of Manasseh lived in the land; from Bashan unto Baal Hermon, and Senir, and mount Hermon they were multiplied.
1CH 5:24 And these were the rulers of the house of their families - Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel - men mighty in strength, famous men, rulers according to the house of their families.
1CH 5:25 And they annulled allegiance with the God of their fathers, and committed harlotry after the gods of the peoples of the land, which God removed from in front of them.
1CH 5:26 And the God of Israel roused up the spirit of Pul king of the Assyrians, and the spirit of Tiglath-Pileser king of the Assyrians. And he resettled Reuben, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, and led them into Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and unto the river Gozan, unto this day.
1CH 6:1 The sons of Levi - Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1CH 6:2 And the sons of Kohath - Amram, and Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
1CH 6:3 And the sons of Amram - Aaron, and Moses, also Miriam. And the sons of Aaron - Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1CH 6:4 And Eleazar engendered Phinehas, and Phinehas engendered Abishua,
1CH 6:5 Abishua engendered Bukki, Bukki engendered Uzzi,
1CH 6:6 Uzzi engendered Zerahiah, and Zerahiah engendered Meraioth,
1CH 6:7 and Maraioth engendered Amariah, and Amariah engendered Ahitub,
1CH 6:8 and Ahitub engendered Zadok, and Zadok engendered Ahimaaz,
1CH 6:9 and Ahimaaz engendered Azariah, and Azariah engendered Johanan.
1CH 6:10 and Johanan engendered Azariah - he is Azariah the officiating priest in the house which Solomon built in Jerusalem.
1CH 6:11 And Azariah engendered Amariah, and Amariah engendered Ahitub,
1CH 6:12 and Ahitub engendered Zadok, and Zadok engendered Shallum,
1CH 6:13 and Shallum engendered Helkiah, and Helkiah engendered Azariah,
1CH 6:14 and Azariah engendered Seraiah, and Seraiah engendered Jehozadak,
1CH 6:15 and Jehozadak went in the carrying into captivity by the LORD of Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar into Babylon.
1CH 6:16 The sons of Levi - Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1CH 6:17 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon - Libni and Shimei.
1CH 6:18 And the sons of Kohath - Amram, and Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
1CH 6:19 And the sons of Merari - Mahli, and Mushi. These are the kin of Levi according to their families.
1CH 6:20 To Gershon - Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
1CH 6:21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.
1CH 6:22 The sons of Kohath - Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
1CH 6:23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,
1CH 6:24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, Shaul his son.
1CH 6:25 And the sons of Elkanah - Amasai, and Ahimoth.
1CH 6:26 Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, and Nahath his son,
1CH 6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son, Samuel his son.
1CH 6:28 And the sons of Samuel - his first-born Joel, and the second Abiah.
1CH 6:29 The sons of Merari - Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son,
1CH 6:30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
1CH 6:31 And these are whom David ordained over the hands of the ones singing in the house of the LORD, during the resting of the ark.
1CH 6:32 And they were officiating before the protection of the tent of the testimony with ode, until the building by Solomon the house of the LORD in Jerusalem. And they stood according to their ordinance for their ministrations.
1CH 6:33 And these are the ones standing, and their sons. From the sons of Kohath - Heman the psalm singer, son of Joel, son of Shemuel,
1CH 6:34 son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,
1CH 6:35 son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,
1CH 6:36 son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,
1CH 6:37 son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,
1CH 6:38 son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel.
1CH 6:39 And his brother Asaph standing at his right - Asaph son of Berachiah, son of Shimea,
1CH 6:40 son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchiah,
1CH 6:41 son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah,
1CH 6:42 son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,
1CH 6:43 son of Jahath, son of Gershon, son of Levi.
1CH 6:44 And the sons of Merari their brothers at the left sides - Ethan son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
1CH 6:45 son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Helkiah
1CH 6:46 son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shamer,
1CH 6:47 son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.
1CH 6:48 And their brothers the Levites were being appointed for all ministrations of servitude of the tent of the house of God.
1CH 6:49 And Aaron and his sons were for burning incense upon the altar of the whole burnt offerings, and upon the altar of the incense, for every work of the holy of holies, and to atone for Israel, according to all as much as Moses the servant of God gave charge.
1CH 6:50 And these are the sons of Aaron - Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
1CH 6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
1CH 6:52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
1CH 6:53 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
1CH 6:54 And these are their dwelling places, in their properties, and in their borders, to the sons of Aaron, to the kin of Kohath; for the lots were to them.
1CH 6:55 And they gave to them Hebron in the land of Judah, and her townships round about her.
1CH 6:56 But the field of the city, and her properties they gave to Caleb son of Jephunneh.
1CH 6:57 And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of places of refuge - Hebron, and Libna and her outskirts, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa and her outskirts,
1CH 6:58 and Hilen and her outskirts, and Debir and her outskirts,
1CH 6:59 and Ashan and her outskirts, and Beth-shemesh and her outskirts.
1CH 6:60 And from out of the tribe of Benjamin - Geba and her outskirts, and Alemeth and her outskirts, and Anathoth and her outskirts. All their cities - thirteen cities with their kin.
1CH 6:61 And to the sons of Kohath, remaining from the kin of the tribe, from out of the half tribe of Manasseh, by lot - ten cities.
1CH 6:62 And to the sons of Gershon according to their kin from the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the tribe of Manasseh, in Bashan - thirteen cities.
1CH 6:63 And to the sons of Merari according to their kin from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulun, by lot - ten and two cities.
1CH 6:64 And the sons of Israel gave to the Levites the cities and their outskirts.
1CH 6:65 And they gave them by lot and from the tribe of the sons of Judah, and from the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and from the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities, which they call them by name.
1CH 6:66 And to the ones from the peoples of the sons of Kohath came to pass the cities of their borders from the tribe of Ephraim.
1CH 6:67 And they gave to them the cities of the place of refuge - Shechem and her outskirts in mount Ephraim, and Gezer and her outskirts,
1CH 6:68 and Jokmeam and her outskirts, and Beth-horon and her outskirts,
1CH 6:69 and Aijalon and her outskirts, and Gath-rimmon and her outskirts.
1CH 6:70 And from the half tribe of Manasseh - Aner and her outskirts, and Bileam and her outskirts, to the kin of the sons of Kohath remaining.
1CH 6:71 To the sons of Gershon, were given out from the kin of the half tribe of Manasseh - Golan of Bashan and her outskirts, and Ashtaroth and her outskirts.
1CH 6:72 And from the tribe of Issachar - Kedesh and her outskirts, and Daberath and her outskirts,
1CH 6:73 and Ramoth and her outskirts, and Anem and her outskirts.
1CH 6:74 And from the tribe of Asher - Mashal and her outskirts, and Abdon and her outskirts,
1CH 6:75 and Hukok and her outskirts, and Rehob and her outskirts.
1CH 6:76 And from the tribe of Naphtali - Kedesh in Galilee and her outskirts, and Hammon and her outskirts, and Kirjathaim and her outskirts.
1CH 6:77 And to the sons of Merari remaining - were given out from the tribe of Zebulun - Rimmon and her outskirts, and Tabor and her outskirts.
1CH 6:78 And of the other side of the Jordan by Jericho, according to the east of the Jordan, were given out from the tribe of Reuben - Bezer in the wilderness and her outskirts, and Jahzah and her outskirts,
1CH 6:79 and Kedemoth and her outskirts, and Mephaath and her outskirts.
1CH 6:80 And from the tribe of Gad - Ramoth in Gilead and her outskirts, and Mahanaim and her outskirts,
1CH 6:81 and Heshbon and her outskirts, and Jazer and her outskirts.
1CH 7:1 And to the sons of Issachar - Tola, and Phua, Jashub, and Shimron - four.
1CH 7:2 And the sons of Tola - Uzzi, and Raphaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, rulers according to the house of their families. To Tola were mighty ones in strength according to their generations; their number in the days of David - twenty and two thousand and six hundred.
1CH 7:3 And the sons of Uzzi - Izrahiah; and the sons of Iezraiah - Michael, Obadiah, and Joel, and Ishiah - all these five are rulers.
1CH 7:4 And with them according to their generations, according to the house of their families, strong armed bands to deploy for war - thirty and six thousand; for they multiplied wives and sons.
1CH 7:5 And their brothers among all the kin of Issachar were mighty in power - eighty and seven thousand, of all their genealogy.
1CH 7:6 The sons of Benjamin - Bela, and Becher, and Jediael - three.
1CH 7:7 And the sons of Bela - Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri - five rulers of the houses of their families, strong ones in power; and their genealogy - twenty two thousand and thirty-four.
1CH 7:8 And the sons of Becher - Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth - all these were sons of Becher.
1CH 7:9 And their genealogy according to their generations, rulers of the houses of their families, mighty ones of strength - twenty thousand and two hundred.
1CH 7:10 And the sons of Jediael - Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan - Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and Ahishahar.
1CH 7:11 All these were sons of Jediael, rulers of the families, mighty ones of strength - seventeen thousand and two hundred going forth in power to wage war.
1CH 7:12 And Shuppim, and Huppim, and the sons of Ir, and Hushim, sons Aher.
1CH 7:13 The sons of Naphtali - Jahziel, Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
1CH 7:14 The sons of Manasseh - Ashriel whom his Syrian concubine bore Machir father of Gilead.
1CH 7:15 And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. And the name to their sister was Maachah. And the name to the second was Zelophehad. And daughters were born to Zelophehad.
1CH 7:16 And Maachah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name given to his brother was Sheresh; and his sons - Ulam and Rakem.
1CH 7:17 And the sons of Ulam - Bedan. These are the sons of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh.
1CH 7:18 And his sister Hammoleketh bore Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.
1CH 7:19 And the sons of Shemida were - Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
1CH 7:20 And the sons of Ephraim - Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,
1CH 7:21 and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead. And the men of Gath born in the land killed them, because they went down to take their cattle.
1CH 7:22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
1CH 7:23 And he entered unto his wife, and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Beriah, for bad things happened in his house,
1CH 7:24 And his daughter was Sherah, and she built Beth-horon - the lower part, and the upper part, and Uzzen-sherah,
1CH 7:25 and Rephah was his son, and Resheph his son, and Telah his son, Tahan his son,
1CH 7:26 and Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
1CH 7:27 Nun his son, Jehoshuah his son.
1CH 7:28 And their possession and dwelling was Beth-el and her towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west Gezer and her towns, and Shechem and her towns unto Gaza and her towns.
1CH 7:29 And unto the borders of the sons of Manasseh - Beth-shean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns, Dor and her towns. In these dwelt the sons of Joseph, son of Israel.
1CH 7:30 The sons of Asher - Imnah, and Ishuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
1CH 7:31 And the sons of Beriah - Heber and Malchiel - he is father of Birzavith.
1CH 7:32 And Heber engendered Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
1CH 7:33 And the sons of Japhlet - Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the sons of Japhlet.
1CH 7:34 And the sons of Shamer - Ahi, and Rohgah, and Jehubbah, and Aram.
1CH 7:35 And the sons of Helem his brother - Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
1CH 7:36 The sons of Zophah - Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
1CH 7:37 Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
1CH 7:38 And the sons of Jether - Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.
1CH 7:39 And the sons of Ulla - Arah, Haniel, and Rizia.
1CH 7:40 All these were sons of Asher, rulers of the house of the families, choice strong men in power, heads of the rulers tracing descent among the position in the battle, their number was twenty-six thousand men.
1CH 8:1 And Benjamin engendered Bela his first-born, and Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,
1CH 8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
1CH 8:3 And the sons to Bela were - Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
1CH 8:4 and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
1CH 8:5 and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
1CH 8:6 These are the sons of Ehud. These are rulers of the families dwelling in Geba, and they resettled them to Manahath.
1CH 8:7 And Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he resettled them. And he engendered Uzza and Ahihud.
1CH 8:8 And Shaharaim engendered in the plain of Moab, after the ejecting them by him - Hushim and Baara his wives.
1CH 8:9 And he engendered from Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,
1CH 8:10 and Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons, rulers of the families.
1CH 8:11 And by Hushim he engendered Abitub, and Elpaal.
1CH 8:12 And the sons of Elpaal - Eber, and Misham, and Shamed who built Ono, and Lod and her towns;
1CH 8:13 and Beriah and Shema. These are rulers of the families of the ones dwelling in Aijalon; these drove out the ones dwelling Gath.
1CH 8:14 And their brothers Shashak and Jeremoth,
1CH 8:15 and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,
1CH 8:16 and Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, sons of Beriah;
1CH 8:17 and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber,
1CH 8:18 and Ishmerai, and Jezliah, and Jobab, sons of Elpaal;
1CH 8:19 and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
1CH 8:20 and Elienai, and Zilthai, and Eliel,
1CH 8:21 and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, sons of Shimhi;
1CH 8:22 and Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel,
1CH 8:23 and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
1CH 8:24 and Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,
1CH 8:25 and Iphedeiah, and Penuel, sons of Shashak;
1CH 8:26 and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
1CH 8:27 and Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, sons of Jeroham.
1CH 8:28 These were rulers of the families according to their generations - chiefs. These dwelt in Jerusalem.
1CH 8:29 And in Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon; and the name of his wife was Maachah.
1CH 8:30 And his son the first-born was Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
1CH 8:31 and Gedor, and his brothers, and Zacher.
1CH 8:32 And Mikloth engendered Shimeah. For also these dwelt over against their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.
1CH 8:33 And Ner engendered Kish, and Kish engendered Saul, and Saul engendered Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Esh-baal.
1CH 8:34 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal engendered Micah.
1CH 8:35 And the sons of Michah - Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
1CH 8:36 And Ahaz engendered Jehoadah; and Jehoadah engendered Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri engendered Moza;
1CH 8:37 and Moza engendered Binea, Rapha his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son.
1CH 8:38 And to Azel were six sons, and these are their names - Azrikam his first-born, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan and Asa. All these were sons of Azel.
1CH 8:39 And the sons of Eshek his brother - Ulam his first-born, and Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
1CH 8:40 And the sons of Ulam were mighty men in strength, stretching the bow, and multiplying sons, and sons of the sons - a hundred and fifty. All these the sons of Benjamin.
1CH 9:1 And all Israel traced descent; and behold, they are written upon the scroll of the kings of Israel and Judah, and they were resettled in Babylon because of their breach-of-contract which they transgressed.
1CH 9:2 And the ones dwelling prior in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the ones appointed.
1CH 9:3 And in Jerusalem dwelt from out of the sons of Judah, and from out of the sons of Benjamin, and from out of the sons of Ephraim, and Manasseh;
1CH 9:4 Uthai son of Ammihud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, of the sons of Pharez son of Judah.
1CH 9:5 And of the Shilonites - Asaiah his first-born, and his sons.
1CH 9:6 And from out of the sons of Zerah - Jeuel, and their brothers - six hundred and ninety.
1CH 9:7 And of the sons of Benjamin - Sallu son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hasenuah,
1CH 9:8 and Ibneiah son of Jeroham, and Elah son of Uzzi, son of Michri, and Meshullam son of Shephatiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah;
1CH 9:9 and their brothers, according to their generations - nine hundred fifty-six. All the men, rulers of families, according to the house of their families.
1CH 9:10 And of the priests - Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,
1CH 9:11 and Azariah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God,
1CH 9:12 and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pashur, son of Malchijah, and Massai son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer.
1CH 9:13 And their brothers, leaders according to the house of their families - a thousand and seven hundred and sixty; mighty in strength in work of the service of the house of God.
1CH 9:14 And from out of the Levites - Shemaiah son of Hashub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
1CH 9:15 and Bakbakkar, and Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah son of Micah, son of Zichri, son of Asaph;
1CH 9:16 and Obadiah son of Shemiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah son of Asa, son of Elkanah, the one dwelling in the courtyards of the Netophathites.
1CH 9:17 And the gatekeepers - Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brothers. Shallum was the ruler.
1CH 9:18 And unto here in the gate of the king according to the east, these were the gatekeepers for the camps of the sons of Levi.
1CH 9:19 And Shallum son of Kore, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah, and his brothers according to the house of their fathers, the Korahites, were over the works of the service, guarding the thresholds of the tent. And their fathers were over the camp of the LORD guarding the entrance.
1CH 9:20 And Phinehas son of Eleazar being the leader was over them before the LORD.
1CH 9:21 And with these Zachariah son of Meshellemiah was gatekeeper of the door of the tent of the testimony.
1CH 9:22 All these being chosen for gatekeepers at the doorposts - two hundred and twelve. These with their properties of their genealogy and their distribution, these were counted. And David and Samuel the seer established them in their trust.
1CH 9:23 And these their sons were over the gates of the house of the LORD, and the house of the tent to keep watch.
1CH 9:24 The gatekeepers were stationed according to the four winds - according to the east, and according to the west, and north, and south.
1CH 9:25 And their brothers in their properties were to come for the sevenths of the times to enter for seven days from time to time after these.
1CH 9:26 For in trust of office are the four mighty ones of the gatekeepers - they the Levites. And they were over the chambers, and over the treasures of the house of God.
1CH 9:27 And they shall lodge surrounding the house of God, for upon them was their watch responsibility, and they were over the keys morning by morning, to open the doors of the temple.
1CH 9:28 And some of them were over the equipment of the ministration; for by count they carry them in, and by count they bring them forth.
1CH 9:29 And some of them were placed over the equipment, and over all the holy items, and over the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the aromatics.
1CH 9:30 And some of the sons of the priests were perfumers of the perfume with the aromatics.
1CH 9:31 And Mattithiah of the Levites - this one was the first-born to Shallum the Korahthite - he was in trust over the works of the sacrifice of the pan.
1CH 9:32 And Benaiah the Kohathite from their brothers, was over the breads of the place setting, being prepared sabbath by sabbath.
1CH 9:33 And these are the psalm singers, rulers of the families of the Levites, in the chamber being set in order for daily rotations, for day and night, for them to do the works.
1CH 9:34 These are rulers of the families of the Levites, according to their generations; these rulers dwelt in Jerusalem.
1CH 9:35 And in Gibeon dwelt Jehiel father of Gibeon, and the name to his wife was Maachah.
1CH 9:36 And his son, the first-born, was Abadon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
1CH 9:37 and Gedor, and his brothers Ahio., and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
1CH 9:38 And Mikloth engendered Shimeam. And these dwelt in the midst of their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.
1CH 9:39 And Ner engendered Kish; and Kish engendered Saul; and Saul engendered Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Esh-baal.
1CH 9:40 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal engendered Micah.
1CH 9:41 And the sons of Micah - Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz.
1CH 9:42 And Ahaz engendered Jarah; and Jarah engendered Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri engendered Moza;
1CH 9:43 and Moza engendered Binea; and Raphaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
1CH 9:44 And to Azel were six sons, and these are their names - Azrikam his first-born, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan, and Asa. These are the sons of Azel.
1CH 10:1 And the Philistines waged war against Israel; and every man of Israel fled from the face of the Philistines, and fell slain in mount Gilboa.
1CH 10:2 And the Philistines pursued after Saul, and after his sons; and the Philistines struck Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, sons of Saul.
1CH 10:3 And the battle pressed against Saul, and the bowmen found him with the bows, and he was in miseries and suffering pain from the bows.
1CH 10:4 And Saul said to the one carrying his weapons, Unsheathe your broadsword, and stab me with it! lest at any time these uncircumcised come and mock me. But the one carrying his weapons would not; for he feared exceedingly. And Saul took the broadsword, and fell upon it.
1CH 10:5 And the one carrying his weapons beheld that Saul died, and he fell also himself upon his broadsword and died.
1CH 10:6 And Saul died, and his three sons and all his house died in one accord.
1CH 10:7 And every man of Israel in the valley beheld that Israel fled, and that Saul died and his sons, and they left their cities and fled. And the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
1CH 10:8 And it came to pass in the next day, the Philistines came to despoil the slain, and they found Saul and his sons having fallen on mount Gilboa.
1CH 10:9 And they stripped him, and carried away his head, and his weapons. And the Philistines sent to the land round about to announce good news in the houses of their idols, and to their people.
1CH 10:10 And they put his weapons in the house of their god, and his head they pinned in the house of Dagon.
1CH 10:11 And all the ones dwelling in Jabesh Gilead heard all what the Philistines did to Saul and to his sons, and to Israel.
1CH 10:12 And every mighty man from out of Gilead rose up, and they came and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them into Jabesh, and entombed their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
1CH 10:13 And Saul died in his lawless deeds which he acted lawlessly against the LORD; against the word of the LORD, for he did not keep it, and because he asked to inquire by the one who delivers oracles.
1CH 10:14 And he inquired not in the LORD - and he killed him, and turned the kingdom to David son of Jesse.
1CH 11:1 And every man of Israel gathered together to David in Hebron, saying, Behold, we are of your bones and of your flesh.
1CH 11:2 And indeed yesterday and indeed the third day before in Saul being king, you were the one bringing in and leading out Israel. And the LORD your God said to you, You tend my people Israel, and you shall be for leader over my people Israel.
1CH 11:3 And all the elders of Israel came to the king in Hebron. And king David ordained with them a covenant in Hebron before the LORD; and they anointed David for king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD through the hand of Samuel.
1CH 11:4 And king David and all Israel went into Jerusalem - this is Jebus. And the Jebusites were there dwelling the land
1CH 11:5 And the ones dwelling Jebus said to David, You shall not enter here. And David was first to take the citadel of Zion - this is the city of David.
1CH 11:6 And David said, Anyone beating the Jebusites at first, he will be as a ruler and as commandant. And Joab son of Zeruiah ascended against them at first, and he became as a ruler.
1CH 11:7 And David stayed in the citadel; because of this he called it, City of David.
1CH 11:8 And he built the city round about, from the Akra and unto the circuit. And Joab procured the rest of the city.
1CH 11:9 And David went going and being magnified. And the LORD almighty was with him.
1CH 11:10 And these are the rulers of the mighty ones who were with David, growing strong with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to give him reign, according to the word of the LORD over Israel.
1CH 11:11 And this is the number of the mighty ones of David - Jashobeam son of a Hachmonite, first of the thirty; this one unsheathed his broadsword upon three hundred slain at one time.
1CH 11:12 And after him - Eleazar son of Dodo, the Ahohite - this one was among the three mighty ones.
1CH 11:13 This one was with David in Pas-dammin, and the Philistines were gathered together there for war, and there was a portion of a field full of barley; and the people fled from the face of the Philistines.
1CH 11:14 And he stood in the midst of the portion, and delivered it, and struck the Philistines. And the LORD performed a great deliverance.
1CH 11:15 And there went down three of the thirty rulers to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the camp of the Philistines pitched in the valley of the giants.
1CH 11:16 And David was then in the citadel, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem.
1CH 11:17 And David desired, and said, Who will give me a drink of water from the well at Beth-lehem, the one at the gate?
1CH 11:18 And the three tore up the camp of the Philistines, and drew water from the well of Beth-lehem, which was at the gate, and took it, and came to David. And David wanted not to drink it. And he gave it as a libation to the LORD.
1CH 11:19 And he said, Kindness to me, O God, to do this thing. Shall I drink blood of these men with their lives? For with their lives they brought it, and I do not want to drink it. These things the three mighty men did.
1CH 11:20 And Abishai the brother of Joab, this one was ruler of the three. This one unsheathed his broadsword against three hundred slain at one time. This one was famous among the other three.
1CH 11:21 Of the three he was more honorable above the two, and became to them as a ruler, but arrived not unto the first three.
1CH 11:22 And Benaiah, son of Jehoiada, son of a mighty man (many were his works) from Kabzeel; he struck the two lion-like ones of Moab; also this one went down and struck the lion in the pit in the day of snow.
1CH 11:23 And this one struck the Egyptian man, a man five cubits tall; and in the hand of the Egyptian was a spear as the beam of a loom of one weaving; and Benaiah went against him with a rod, and removed the spear from the hand of the Egyptian, and killed him by his spear.
1CH 11:24 These things Benaiah son of Jehoiada did. And to this one was a name among the three mighty ones.
1CH 11:25 He was honored above the thirty, but arrived not unto the first three. And David placed him over his family.
1CH 11:26 And the mighty ones of power - Asahel brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo from Beth-lehem,
1CH 11:27 Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
1CH 11:28 Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abi-ezer the Antothite,
1CH 11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
1CH 11:30 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite,
1CH 11:31 Ithai son of Ribai of Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
1CH 11:32 Hurai from Nachali Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
1CH 11:33 Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
1CH 11:34 sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shage the Hararite,
1CH 11:35 Ahiam son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur,
1CH 11:36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
1CH 11:37 Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai,
1CH 11:38 Joel brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Haggeri,
1CH 11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naarai the Berothite, the one carrying the weapons of Joab son of Zeruiah,
1CH 11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
1CH 11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Ahlai,
1CH 11:42 Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, ruler to Reuben, and with him thirty.
1CH 11:43 Hanan son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,
1CH 11:44 Uzzia the Asterathite, Shama and Jehiel sons of Hothan the Aroerite,
1CH 11:45 Jediael son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
1CH 11:46 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam, and Ithma the Moabite,
1CH 11:47 Eliel, and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.
1CH 12:1 And these are the ones coming to David in Ziglag, while banding together from the face of Saul son of Kish. And they are among the mighty ones, helping in war,
1CH 12:2 and using the bow from out of the right hands and with the left hands, and slingers with stones, and with arrows, and a bow. They were from out of the brothers of Saul of Benjamin.
1CH 12:3 The ruler was Ahiezer, and Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; and Jeziel, and Pelet sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah, and Jehu the Antothite,
1CH 12:4 and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, mighty among the thirty, and over the thirty; Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite;
1CH 12:5 Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Baaliah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite;
1CH 12:6 Elkanah, and Jessiah, and Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites,
1CH 12:7 and Joelah, and Zebadiah sons of Jeroham, sons of Gedor.
1CH 12:8 And of the Gadites these separated to David into the wilderness, mighty strong men for war, deploying shield and spear, and their faces were as faces of lions, and they were light as does upon the mountains going quickly.
1CH 12:9 Ezer the ruler, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,
1CH 12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,
1CH 12:11 Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,
1CH 12:12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,
1CH 12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh.
1CH 12:14 These were of the sons of Gad, rulers of the military, one to a hundred - the small, and the great - the thousand.
1CH 12:15 These are the ones passing over the Jordan in the first month, and it was filled over all its bank; and they drove out all the ones dwelling in the canyons to the east, and to the west.
1CH 12:16 And some came from the sons of Benjamin and Judah to help David.
1CH 12:17 And David came forth to meet them, and he answered and said to them, If in peace you have come to me to help me, may it be to me a heart with you for uniting. But if to deliver me up to my enemies, not in truth of hand, may the God of our fathers see it, and reprove.
1CH 12:18 And spirit clothed Amasai ruler of the thirty, and he said, Go, David son of Jesse, you and your people, in peace! Peace to you, and peace to your helpers; for your God helped you. And David favorably received them, and placed them as rulers of the forces.
1CH 12:19 And some from Manasseh joined with David in the coming of the Philistines against Saul for war. And David did not help them, for in counsel it came to pass from the commandants of the Philistines, saying, With our heads he will return to his master Saul.
1CH 12:20 And they sent him away. And in David going to Ziklag, some joined with him from Manasseh - Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zilthai - chiefs of thousands of Manasseh.
1CH 12:21 And they fought along with David against the troop, for they were all mighty in strength, and were leaders in the military in the force.
1CH 12:22 For at that time day by day they came to David to help him, as for a great camp, as the camp of God.
1CH 12:23 And these are the names of the rulers of the military coming to David in Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of the LORD.
1CH 12:24 Sons of Judah, bearing an oblong shield and spear - six thousand and eight hundred, mighty ones for battle array.
1CH 12:25 Of the sons of Simeon, mighty ones in strength for battle array - seven thousand and a hundred.
1CH 12:26 Of the sons of Levi - four thousand and six hundred.
1CH 12:27 And Jehoiada the leader to Aaron, and with him - three thousand and seven hundred.
1CH 12:28 And Zadok, a young man, mighty in strength, and of the house of his father - twenty and two rulers.
1CH 12:29 And from out of the sons of Benjamin, of the brothers of Saul - three thousand. And yet most of them kept the guard of the house of Saul.
1CH 12:30 And from the sons of Ephraim - twenty thousand and eight hundred mighty in strength, famous men, according to the houses of their families.
1CH 12:31 And of the half tribe of Manasseh - eighteen thousand, being named by name to come to give reign to David.
1CH 12:32 And of the sons of Issachar, ones perceiving with understanding concerning the times, knowing what Israel shall do in their companies - two hundred; and all their brothers with them.
1CH 12:33 And of Zebulun going forth into battle array for war with all the weapons for warfare - fifty thousand, to help David, nor with heart and heartnot double-hearted..
1CH 12:34 And from Naphtali a thousand rulers, and with them with shields and spears - thirty and seven thousand.
1CH 12:35 And from the Danites being deployed for war - twenty-eight thousand and six hundred.
1CH 12:36 And from Asher, ones going forth to help in war - forty thousand.
1CH 12:37 And from the other side of the Jordan of Reuben, and the Gadites, and from the half tribe of Manasseh, all with weapons for warfare in the force - a hundred twenty thousand.
1CH 12:38 All these men were warriors being deployed in battle array. they came with a peaceful soul unto Hebron, to give reign to David over all Israel. And the rest of Israel was one soul to give reign to David.
1CH 12:39 And they were there with David three days, eating and drinking; for their brothers made preparations for them.
1CH 12:40 And the ones adjoining them, near Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought to them upon the donkeys, and upon the camels, and upon the mules, and upon the calves, foods - flour, dried clusters of figs, dried grapes, wine, and olive oil, calves, and sheep in multitude; for gladness was in Israel.
1CH 13:1 And David consulted with the rulers, and the commanders of thousands, and the commanders of hundreds - with every leader.
1CH 13:2 And David said to all the assembly of Israel, If it seems good to you, and by the LORD our God, that he should prosper the way, then we should send to our brothers being left in all the land of Israel, and the priests the Levites with them which are in the cities of their possession, that they shall be gathered together to us.
1CH 13:3 And we should turn the ark of our God to us; for we sought it not from the days of Saul.
1CH 13:4 And all the assembly said to do so; for the word was upright in the eyes of all the people.
1CH 13:5 And David assembled all Israel, from the borders of Egypt and unto the entrance of Hamath, to carry in the ark of God from out of the city of Jearim.
1CH 13:6 And David ascended, and all Israel into Kirjath-jearim, which is of Judah, to lead up from there the ark of the LORD God, the one sitting upon the cherubim of which his name is called upon there.
1CH 13:7 And they placed the ark of God upon a new wagon, from out of the house of Abinadab. And Uzza and his brothers led the wagon.
1CH 13:8 And David and all Israel were playing before God with all their ability, and with songs, and with lutes, and with stringed instruments, and with tambourines, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.
1CH 13:9 And they came unto the threshing-floor of Chidon. And Uzza stretched out his hand to hold down the ark; for the calf turned it.
1CH 13:10 And the LORD was enraged in anger against Uzza, and struck him there, on account of the stretching out of his hand upon the ark; and he died there before God.
1CH 13:11 And David was depressed that the LORD cut through a severance with Uzza; and he called that place Severance of Oza until this day.
1CH 13:12 And David feared God in that day, saying, How shall I carry in to myself the ark of God?
1CH 13:13 And David did not return the ark to himself into the city of David, but turned it aside into the house of Obed Edom the Gittite.
1CH 13:14 And the ark of God stayed in the household of Obed Edom in his house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obed Edom, and all the ones of his.
1CH 14:1 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber of cedars, and fabricators of walls, and fabricators of woods, to build for him a house.
1CH 14:2 And David knew that the LORD prepared him for king over Israel, for his kingdom grew in stature because of his people Israel.
1CH 14:3 And David took still more wives in Jerusalem. And were born to David again sons and daughters.
1CH 14:4 And these are their names being born to him in Jerusalem - Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,
1CH 14:5 and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpalet,
1CH 14:6 and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
1CH 14:7 and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.
1CH 14:8 And the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, and all the Philistines ascended to seek David. And David heard, and came forth to meet them.
1CH 14:9 And the Philistines came and assembled for battle in the valley of the giants.
1CH 14:10 And David asked through God, saying, Shall I ascend against the Philistines? And will you give them into my hands? And the LORD said to him, Ascend! And I will give them into your hands.
1CH 14:11 And he ascended into Baal Perazim, and David struck them there. And David said, God cut through my enemies by my hand as a severance of water. On account of this he called the name of that place - Severance of Baal Perazim.
1CH 14:12 And the Philistines abandoned there their gods. And David spoke, and they were set on fire with fire.
1CH 14:13 And the Philistines proceeded yet again, and assembled for battle again in the Valley of the Giants.
1CH 14:14 And David asked again to God. And God said to him, Do not go after them! Turn from them, and come to them near the pear trees!
1CH 14:15 And it will be in your hearing the sound of the rumbling of them in the tips of the pear trees, then you shall enter into the battle; for God went forth before you to strike the camp of the Philistines.
1CH 14:16 And David did as God gave charge to him, and struck the camp of the Philistines from Gibeon unto Gezer.
1CH 14:17 And the name of David went out in all the lands, and the LORD put the fear of him upon all the nations.
1CH 15:1 And he made for himself houses in the city of David, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.
1CH 15:2 Then said David, Not anyone is to lift the ark of God except the Levites; for the LORD chose them to lift the ark of the LORD, and to officiate to him unto the eon.
1CH 15:3 And David gathered all Israel to Jerusalem, to bear the ark of the LORD into the place, which he prepared for it.
1CH 15:4 And David gathered the sons of Aaron, and the Levites.
1CH 15:5 Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the ruler, and his brothers - a hundred and twenty.
1CH 15:6 Of the sons of Merari; Asiah the ruler, and his brothers - two hundred and twenty.
1CH 15:7 Of the sons of Gershon; Joel the ruler, and his brothers - a hundred and thirty.
1CH 15:8 Of the sons of Elizaphan; Shemaiah the ruler, and his brothers - two hundred.
1CH 15:9 Of the sons of Hebron; Eliel the ruler, and his brothers - eighty.
1CH 15:10 Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the ruler, and his brothers - a hundred and twelve.
1CH 15:11 And David called Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and the Levites - Uriel, Asiah, and Joel, and Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab.
1CH 15:12 And he said to them, You are the rulers of the families of the Levites; purify yourselves, and your brothers, and you shall bear the ark of the LORD God of Israel, of which I prepared for it!
1CH 15:13 For not prior were you being ready, and the LORD our God cut through among us, for we did not seek him in practice.
1CH 15:14 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves to bring the ark of the LORD God of Israel.
1CH 15:15 And the sons of the Levites lifted the ark of God (as Moses gave charge by the word of the LORD according to the writing) with the bearing poles on their shoulders.
1CH 15:16 And David said to the rulers of the Levites, You shall station their brothers the psalm singers with instruments for odes, with stringed instruments, lutes, and cymbals, to sound out loud on high with the voice of gladness.
1CH 15:17 And the Levites stationed Heman son of Joel. And from out of his brothers - Asaph son Berechiah; and from out of the sons of Merari his brothers - Ethan son of Kushaiah.
1CH 15:18 And with them their brothers, the ones second ranked - Zechariah son of Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed Edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers.
1CH 15:19 And the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, to cause to be heard with cymbals of brass.
1CH 15:20 And Zachariah, and Aziel, and Shimiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Masseiah, and Benaiah, with stringed instruments upon Alamoth.
1CH 15:21 And Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed Edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with lutes with octaves growing in strength.
1CH 15:22 And Chenaniah, ruler of the Levites, was ruler of the odes, for he was discerning.
1CH 15:23 And Berechiah and Elkanah were gatekeepers of the ark.
1CH 15:24 And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, were trumpeting with the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obed Edom and Jehiah were gatekeepers of the ark.
1CH 15:25 And David was, and the elders of Israel, and the commanders of thousands, the ones going to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD from out of the house of Obed Edom in gladness.
1CH 15:26 And it came to pass, in the strengthening by God of the Levites lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they sacrificed seven calves and seven rams.
1CH 15:27 And David was being girded in a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites were lifting the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the psalm singers, and Chenaniah the ruler of the odes were singing. And upon David was an ephod of fine linen.
1CH 15:28 And all Israel was leading the ark of the covenant of the LORD with a cheer, and with a sound of the ram's horn, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding out loud with stringed instruments, and with lutes.
1CH 15:29 And it came to pass, and the ark of the covenant of the LORD came unto the city of David, and Michal the daughter of Saul leaned over through the window, and beheld king David dancing and playing; and she treated him with contempt in her soul.
1CH 16:1 And they carried in the ark of God, and fastened it in the midst of the tent which David pitched for it. And they offered whole burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
1CH 16:2 And David completed offering the whole burnt offerings and the peace offerings, and blessed the people by the name of the LORD.
1CH 16:3 And he divided unto every man of Israel, from man unto woman, to every man one bread of a baker, and honey-bread.
1CH 16:4 And he arranged in front of the ark of the covenant of the LORD certain of the Levites officiating, and sounding out loud, and to acknowledge and to give praise to the LORD God of Israel -
1CH 16:5 Asaph the ruler, and his second Zachariah, and Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed Edom. And Jeiel was with instruments, with stringed instruments and lutes; and Asaph was with cymbals sounding out loud.
1CH 16:6 And Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with the trumpets were continually before the ark of the covenant of God.
1CH 16:7 In that day then David arranged this psalm in the beginning of the praising the LORD by the hand of Asaph and his brothers.
1CH 16:8 Make acknowledgement to the LORD! Call upon him by his name! Make known among the peoples the things of his practices!
1CH 16:9 Sing to him, even sing praise to him! Describe all his wonders which the LORD did!
1CH 16:10 Give praise in his holy name! You shall be glad in heart seeking his good-pleasure.
1CH 16:11 Seek the LORD, and be strong! Seek his face always!
1CH 16:12 Remember his wonders which he did! his miracles, and the judgments of his mouth.
1CH 16:13 Seed of Israel his servants; sons of Jacob his chosen.
1CH 16:14 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
1CH 16:15 Remember his covenant into the eon! his word which he gave charge to a thousand generations,
1CH 16:16 which he ordained with Abraham, and his oath to Isaac.
1CH 16:17 And he established it to Jacob for an order, and to Israel for an eternal covenant,
1CH 16:18 saying, To you I shall give the land of Canaan, a piece of measured out land for your inheritance;
1CH 16:19 in the being of them very few in number - as a few and sojourners in it.
1CH 16:20 And they went from nation to nation, and from kingdom to another people.
1CH 16:21 He did not allow a man to overpower them; and he reproved kings on account of them,
1CH 16:22 saying, Touch not my anointed ones, and among my prophets do not do wickedly!
1CH 16:23 Sing to the LORD all the earth! Announce from day to day his deliverance!
1CH 16:24 Describe among the nations his glory! among all the peoples his wonders.
1CH 16:25 For great is the LORD, and praiseworthy exceedingly. He is fearful above all the gods.
1CH 16:26 For all the gods of the nations are idols; and the LORD made the heavens.
1CH 16:27 Glory and high praise are before his face; strength and boasting are in his holy place.
1CH 16:28 Give to the LORD, O families of the nations! Give to the LORD glory and strength!
1CH 16:29 Give to the LORD glory due his name! Take sacrifices, and enter before him! And do obeisance to the LORD in his holy courtyards!
1CH 16:30 Fear before his face all the earth! For even the inhabitable world is set up, which shall not be shaken.
1CH 16:31 Be glad O heaven, and exult O earth! And let them say among the nations, The LORD is reigning!
1CH 16:32 The sea shall resonate with the fullness of it. Let the field exhult, and all the things in it!
1CH 16:33 Then the trees of the grove shall be glad before the face of the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth.
1CH 16:34 Make acknowledgment to the LORD for good! for his mercy is into the eon.
1CH 16:35 And say, Deliver us, O God of our deliverances! And gather us, and rescue us from out of the nations to praise your name - the holy one! to boast in your praises.
1CH 16:36 Being blessed is the LORD God of Israel from the eon and unto the eon. And all the people shall say, Amen. And they gave praise to the LORD.
1CH 16:37 And was left behind there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD Asaph and his brothers, to officiate before the ark continually to the matter, the one of the day to its day.
1CH 16:38 And Obed Edom and his brothers were - sixty and eight. And Obed Edom son of Jeduthun and Hosah were as gatekeepers.
1CH 16:39 And Zadok the priest, and his brothers of the priests, were before the tent of the LORD in Bama in Gibeon,
1CH 16:40 to offer whole burnt offerings to the LORD upon the altar of the whole burnt offerings continually in the morning and the evening, and according to all the things being written in the law of the LORD, as much as he gave charge unto the sons of Israel.
1CH 16:41 And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest being chosen by name, to praise the LORD, for his mercy is into the eon.
1CH 16:42 And with them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals to sound out loud, and with instruments for the odes of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were at the gate.
1CH 16:43 And all the people each went to his house. And David returned to bless his house.
1CH 17:1 And it came to pass as David dwelt in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, and the ark of the covenant of the LORD is underneath hide coverings.
1CH 17:2 And Nathan said to David, All in your soul do! for God is with you.
1CH 17:3 And it came to pass in that night, and the word of God came to Nathan,
1CH 17:4 You go, and say to David my servant! Thus said the LORD, You shall not build for me a house for me to dwell in it.
1CH 17:5 For I dwelt not in a house from the day which I led up Israel until this day; for I was in a tent for protection, and inside the covering.
1CH 17:6 In all the places in which I went with all Israel, did in speaking I say to any one tribe of Israel, whom I gave charge to tend my people, saying, Why did you not build for me a house of cedar?
1CH 17:7 And now thus you shall say to my servant David, Thus says the LORD of the forces, I took you from out of the haven, from following the flocks, to be as one leading over my people Israel.
1CH 17:8 And I was with you in all the places in which you went, and I utterly destroyed all your enemies from in front of you, and made to you a name according to the name of the great ones upon the earth.
1CH 17:9 And I shall establish a place for my people Israel. And I will plant him, and he shall encamp by himself, and shall not be disturbed any longer; and the son of iniquity shall not proceed to humble him, as from the beginning.
1CH 17:10 And from days which I arranged judges over my people Israel, and I humbled all your enemies, even I will increase you, and I will build to you a house, says the LORD.
1CH 17:11 And it will be whenever your days should be filled to go with your fathers, that I will raise up your seed after you, who will be from your belly, and I will prepare his kingdom.
1CH 17:12 He shall build a house to me, and I shall re-erect his throne unto the eon.
1CH 17:13 I will be to him as father, and he will be to me as son. And my mercy I will not remove from him, as I removed from the ones before you.
1CH 17:14 And I will stand him in my house, and with his kingdom unto the eon. And his throne will be re-erected unto the eon.
1CH 17:15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so spoke Nathan to David.
1CH 17:16 And king David came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my house, that you loved me unto the eon?
1CH 17:17 And these things were diminished before you, O God; and you spoke about the house of your servant from a long time, and looked upon me as man's vision, and raised me up high, O LORD God.
1CH 17:18 How shall David proceed yet to you, to glorify you - your servant? And you know your servant.
1CH 17:19 O LORD, on account of your servant, and according to your heart, you did all this greatness, to make known all the great things.
1CH 17:20 O LORD, there is not one likened to you, and there is not a God besides you, according to all as much as we heard with our ears.
1CH 17:21 And there is not a nation as your people Israel yet upon the earth, as God guided him for the ransoming a people to himself, to establish to himself a great and apparent name, to cast out nations from in front of your people of whom you ransomed from out of Egypt.
1CH 17:22 And you appointed your people Israel for yourself - a people unto the eon. And you, O LORD, became to them for God.
1CH 17:23 And now, O LORD, your word which you spoke to your servant, and concerning his house, let it be trusted unto the eon, and do as you spoke!
1CH 17:24 And let your name be trusted and be magnified unto the eon! saying, The LORD almighty, the God of Israel, God to Israel; and the house of David your servant being erected before you.
1CH 17:25 For you, O LORD my God, uncovered the ear of your servant to build to him a house. Because of this your servant found need to pray before your face.
1CH 17:26 And now, O LORD, You are he - God, and you spoke these good things concerning your servant.
1CH 17:27 And now you began to bless the house of your servant, for it to be in the eon before you. For you, O LORD, are blessed, and you bless into the eon!
1CH 18:1 And it came to pass after these things, that David struck the Philistines, and put them to flight, and took Gath and her towns from the hand of the Philistines.
1CH 18:2 And he struck Moab, and Moab became bondservant to David, bringing gifts.
1CH 18:3 And David struck Hadarezer king of Zobah at Hamath, in his going to establish his hand over the river Euphrates.
1CH 18:4 And David first took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horses, and twenty thousand men footmen. And David disabled all the chariots, and left of them a hundred chariots.
1CH 18:5 And Syria came from out of Damascus to help Hadarezer king of Zobah. And David struck among the Syrian - twenty and two thousand men.
1CH 18:6 And David placed a detachment in Syria near Damascus; and they were to David as servants bringing gifts. And the LORD preserved David in all wherever he went.
1CH 18:7 And David took the collars of gold things which were upon the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them into Jerusalem.
1CH 18:8 And from Tibhath, and from the chosen cities of Hadarezer, David took exceedingly much brass. Of it Solomon made the brass sea, and the columns, and the items of brass.
1CH 18:9 And Tou king of Hamath heard that David struck all the force of Hadarezer king of Zobah.
1CH 18:10 And he sent Hadoram his son to king David to ask him the things for peace, and to congratulate him, for of which he waged war against Hadarezer, and for striking him (because Tou was a warlike man), with Hadarezer. And all the items of gold, and of silver, and of brass,
1CH 18:11 even these king David sanctified to the LORD, with the silver and the gold which he took from out of all of the nations - from out of Edom, and Moab, and from out of the sons of Ammon, and from out of the Philistines, and from out of Amalek.
1CH 18:12 And Abishai son of Zeruiah struck the Edomite in the valley of salts - eighteen thousand.
1CH 18:13 And he placed in Edom a detachment of soldiers. And all the Edomites were servants to David. And the LORD preserved David in all wherever he went.
1CH 18:14 And David reigned over all Israel, and was executing judgment and righteousness to all his people.
1CH 18:15 And Joab son of Zeruiah was over the military; and Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was the recorder;
1CH 18:16 and Zadok son of Ahitub, and Abimelech son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe;
1CH 18:17 and Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethite and the Phelethite; and the sons of David were the first successors of the king.
1CH 19:1 And it came to pass after these things that Nahash king of the sons of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned instead of him.
1CH 19:2 And David said, I will do an act of kindness with Hanun son of Nahash, as his father performed kindness with me. And David sent messengers to comfort him because of his father. And the servants of David came into the land of the sons of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort him.
1CH 19:3 And said the rulers of the sons of Ammon to Hanun, Is David glorifying your father in your eyes, to send to you comforters? Is it not that they may search out the city, and to spy out the land that his servants came to you?
1CH 19:4 And Hanun took the servants of David, and shaved them, and removed their uniforms half way unto the wrapping, and sent them away.
1CH 19:5 And others came, and they reported to David for the men. And he sent to meet them, for the men were disgraced exceedingly. And the king said, Stay in Jericho until your beards rise up, and return!
1CH 19:6 And the sons of Ammon knew that the people of David were put to shame. And Hanun and the sons of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire for themselves from out of Syria of Mesopotamia, and from out of Syria of Maachah, and from Zobah, chariots and horsemen.
1CH 19:7 And they hired for themselves two and thirty thousand chariots, and the king of Maachah and his people. And they came and camped before Medeba. And the sons of Ammon gathered together from out of their cities, and came to wage war.
1CH 19:8 And David heard, and sent Joab, and all the military of the forces.
1CH 19:9 And the sons of Ammon went forth and deployed for war by the gatehouse of the city, and the kings coming camped by themselves in the plain.
1CH 19:10 And Joab beheld that it happened in their facing off to wage war before him from in front and from behind, that he chose of every young man of Israel, and deployed before Syria.
1CH 19:11 And the rest of the people he put into the hand of Abishai his brother, and they deployed right opposite the sons of Ammon.
1CH 19:12 And he said, If Syria should strengthen over me, then you will be to me for deliverance; and if the sons of Ammon should strengthen over you, then I will deliver you.
1CH 19:13 Be manly! And we shall grow in strength for our people, and for the cities of our God; and the LORD shall do good in his eyes.
1CH 19:14 And Joab deployed and the people with him right opposite Syria for war; and they fled from them.
1CH 19:15 And the sons of Ammon beheld that the Syrians fled, and they fled even themselves from in front of Abishai, and from in front of Joab his brother, and came into the city. And Joab went to Jerusalem.
1CH 19:16 And the Syrian saw that Israel put him to flight, and it sent messengers, and brought the Syrian from the other side of the river. And Shophach the commander-in-chief of the force of Hadarezer was in front of them.
1CH 19:17 And it was reported to David, and he gathered together all Israel, and passed over the Jordan, and came upon them, and deployed against them. And Syria deployed right opposite David for war, and waged war with him.
1CH 19:18 And Syria fled from in front of Israel; and David killed of the Syrian seven thousand of the chariots, and forty thousand men on foot; and Shophach the commander-in-chief of the force he killed.
1CH 19:19 And the servants of Hadarezer beheld that they failed from in front of Israel, and they ordained with David a peace, and served to him. And Syria did not want to help the sons of Ammon any longer.
1CH 20:1 And it came to pass, in the year going out, in the exiting of the kings for war, that Joab led all the force of the military, and ruined the place of the sons of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. And David settled in Jerusalem. And Joab struck Rabbah, and razed it.
1CH 20:2 And David took the crown of their king from his head, and found the weight of it to be a talent of gold, and on it a valuable stone. And it was upon the head of David. And he brought forth exceedingly much spoils from the city.
1CH 20:3 And the people in it he led out, and sawed through with saws, and with adz of iron, and with threshing machines. And thus David did to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. And David returned and all his people unto Jerusalem.
1CH 20:4 And it came to pass after these things that there was still war in Gezer with the Philistines. Then Sibbechai the Hushathite struck Sippai of the sons of the giants, and abased him.
1CH 20:5 And came to pass yet again war with the Philistines. And Elhanan son of Jair struck Lahmi brother of Goliath the Gittite; and the wood of his spear was as the beam of a loom of one weaving.
1CH 20:6 And came to pass yet again a war in Gath. And there was an immense man, and his fingers and toes were six by six - twenty and four; and this one was a descendant of the giants.
1CH 20:7 And he berated Israel, and Jonathan the son of Shimea brother of David struck him.
1CH 20:8 These were born to Rapha in Gath; all four were giants; and they fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.
1CH 21:1 And Satan rose up against Israel, and stirred up David to count Israel.
1CH 21:2 And king David said to Joab, and to the rulers of the force, Go, count Israel from Beer-sheba unto Dan, and bring it to me, and I shall know their number!
1CH 21:3 And Joab said, May the LORD add unto his people as they are a hundred foldly, and the eyes of my master the king seeing it - are not, O my master, O king, all for bondservants to my master? and why does my master want this - so as to not become for a tresspass to Israel?
1CH 21:4 But the saying of the king prevailed over Joab. And Joab went forth, and went unto all Israel, and went up unto Jerusalem.
1CH 21:5 And Joab gave the number of the numbering of the people to David. And all Israel was a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men unsheathing the broadsword. And of Judah - four hundred and seventy thousand men unsheathing the broadsword.
1CH 21:6 And Levi and Benjamin were not counted in the midst of them, for the word of the king was disgraceful to Joab.
1CH 21:7 And it was wicked before God concerning this thing, and he struck Israel.
1CH 21:8 And David said to God, I have sinned exceedingly, that I did this thing. And now, remove indeed the iniquity of your servant! for I acted in folly exceedingly.
1CH 21:9 And the LORD spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying,
1CH 21:10 Go and speak to David! saying, Thus says the LORD, Three things I will take up upon you; choose for yourself one of them, and I will do it unto you!
1CH 21:11 And Gad came to David, and said to him, Thus says the LORD, Choose for yourself!
1CH 21:12 Either three years of famine, or three months fleeing from the face of your enemies, with the sword of your enemies pursuing you; or three days of the broadsword of the LORD, and plague in the land, and the angel of the LORD utterly destroying among all the inheritance of Israel. And now, behold, what word should I answer to the one sending me?
1CH 21:13 And David said to Gad, It is narrow exceedingly. I shall fall indeed into the hands of the LORD, for his compassions are exceedingly great; but into the hands of men in no way should I fall.
1CH 21:14 And the LORD appointed plague in Israel. And there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.
1CH 21:15 And God sent an angel into Jerusalem to utterly destroy it. And as he was utterly destroying, the LORD beheld and repented concerning the evil, and said to the angel utterly destroying, Let it be enough to you! Spare your hand! And the angel of the LORD stood at the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1CH 21:16 And David lifted up his eyes, and beheld the angel of the LORD standing between the earth and between the heaven, and his broadsword being unsheathed in his hand, being stretched out over Jerusalem. And David and the elders wearing sackcloths fell upon their face.
1CH 21:17 And David said to God, Did I not say to count among the people? Then I am the one sinning - in doing evil I did evil. And these sheep, what did they do, O LORD God? Let your hand come against me, and against the house of my father, and not against your people for destruction!
1CH 21:18 And the angel of the LORD told to Gad to say to David that he should ascend to establish an altar to the LORD at the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1CH 21:19 And David ascended according to the word of Gad, which he spoke in the name of the LORD.
1CH 21:20 And Ornan turned, and beheld the king; and his four sons with him were being hidden. And Ornan was threshing wheat.
1CH 21:21 And David came to Ornan, and Ornan came forth from the threshing-floor. And Ornan looked up, and saw David, and did obeisance to David with the face upon the ground.
1CH 21:22 And David said to Ornan, Give to me the place of the threshing-floor, and I shall build upon it an altar to the LORD! Give it to me for its money's worth, and the calamity shall cease from among the people!
1CH 21:23 And Ornan said to David, Take it for yourself, and let my master the king do what is good before him! Behold, I have given the oxen for a whole burnt offering, and the plow for wood, and the grain for a sacrifice; the whole I have given.
1CH 21:24 And king David said to Ornan, Not so, but only by buying shall I buy of its money's worth; for in no way shall I take the things of yours to the LORD, to offer a whole burnt offering without charge to me to the LORD.
1CH 21:25 And David gave to Ornan for his place six hundred shekels of gold in scale-weight.
1CH 21:26 And David built there an altar to the LORD. And he offered whole burnt offerings, and a deliverance offering, and yelled to the LORD. And he heeded him by fire from out of the heaven on the altar of the whole burnt offering.
1CH 21:27 And the LORD spoke to the angel, and he put away his broadsword into its sheath.
1CH 21:28 In that time when David beheld that the LORD heeded him at the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
1CH 21:29 And the tent of the LORD which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the whole burnt offerings, in that time were in Bama in Gibeon.
1CH 21:30 And David was not able to go before it to seek God, for he hastened from the face of the broadsword of the angel of the LORD.
1CH 22:1 And David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and this is the altar for the whole burnt offering to Israel.
1CH 22:2 And David said to gather together all the foreigners in the land of Israel. And he placed quarriers to quarry planed stones to build a house to the LORD.
1CH 22:3 And much iron for the nails of the doorways, and of the gates, and of the hinges, David prepared; and brass in multitude - there was not a counting its weight.
1CH 22:4 And there was not a number for the wood of cedars; for the Sidonians and the Tyrians brought wood of cedars in multitude to David.
1CH 22:5 And David said, Solomon my son is a tender boy, and the house to be built to the LORD must be to magnify upward, for a name and for glory in all the earth - I shall prepare for it. And David prepared for it in multitude before his decease.
1CH 22:6 And he called Solomon his son, and gave charge to him to build the house to the LORD God of Israel.
1CH 22:7 And David said, Solomon, my child, it was upon my soul to build a house to the name of the LORD my God.
1CH 22:8 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, You poured out blood in multitude, and you made great wars; you shall not build a house to my name, for you poured out much blood upon the earth before me.
1CH 22:9 Behold, a son is born to you, this one will be a man of rest; and I will rest him from all his enemies round about. For Solomon is his name, and peace and rest I shall appoint over Israel in his days.
1CH 22:10 This one shall build a house to my name; and this one shall be to me as a son, and I will be to him for father; and I will prepare the throne of his kingdom in Israel unto the eon.
1CH 22:11 And now, O my son, may the LORD be with you; and you shall prosper, and shall build a house to the LORD your God as he said concerning you.
1CH 22:12 Only may the LORD give to you wisdom and understanding, and strengthen you over Israel, to guard and to observe the law of the LORD your God.
1CH 22:13 Then the way shall prosper, if you should guard to observe the orders and the judgments which the LORD gave charge to Moses for Israel. Be manly and be strong! Fear not nor be timid!
1CH 22:14 And behold, I according to my poorness prepared for the house of the LORD - gold of a hundred thousand talents, and silver of a thousand thousand of talents, and brass, and iron of which there is not a counting the weight; for it is in multitude. And wood and stones I prepared; and you add unto these things!
1CH 22:15 And with you doing the works in multitude are craftsmen, quarriers of stones, and fabricators of wood, and every wise one for every work -
1CH 22:16 in gold, and silver, in brass, and in iron, in which there is not a number. Rise up, and act, and the LORD be with you!
1CH 22:17 And David gave charge to all the rulers of Israel to assist Solomon his son, saying,
1CH 22:18 Is not the LORD with you? And he will give you rest round about, for he delivered up into my hand the ones dwelling the land, and the land is submitted before the LORD, and before his people.
1CH 22:19 Now give your hearts and your souls to seek the LORD your God! And arise, and build the sanctuary to the LORD your God, to carry in the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy items of God, into the house being built to the name of the LORD!
1CH 23:1 And David was older and full of days. And Solomon his son took reign instead of him over Israel.
1CH 23:2 And he brought together all the rulers of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites.
1CH 23:3 And the Levites were counted from thirty years old and up. And the number of them was according to their head count of males - thirty and eight thousand.
1CH 23:4 Of these were foremen over the works of the house of the LORD - twenty-four thousand; and scribes and judges - six thousand;
1CH 23:5 and four thousand gatekeepers; and four thousand praising the LORD with instruments, which made praise to the LORD.
1CH 23:6 And David divided them into daily rotations to the sons of Levi - to Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1CH 23:7 And to the family of Gershon - Laadan, and Shimei.
1CH 23:8 The sons to Ladan - the ruler Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel - three.
1CH 23:9 The sons of Shimei - Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran - three. These were rulers of the families of Laadan.
1CH 23:10 And sons of Shimei - Jahath, and Zizah, and Jeush, and Beriah. These are sons of Shimei - four.
1CH 23:11 And Jahath was the ruler, and Zizah the second. And Jeush and Beriah did not multiply sons; and they were assigned for the house of the family for numbering as one.
1CH 23:12 The sons of Kohath - Amram, Izhar, Hebron, Uzziel - four.
1CH 23:13 The sons of Amram - Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was separated to sanctify the holy of holies, he and his sons unto the eon, to burn incense before the LORD, to officiate to him, and to invoke upon his name unto the eon.
1CH 23:14 And as far as Moses the man of God, his sons were called unto the tribe of Levi.
1CH 23:15 The sons of Moses - Gershom and Eliezer.
1CH 23:16 The sons of Gershom - Shebuel the ruler.
1CH 23:17 And there were sons to Eliezer - Rehabiah the ruler. But there were not other sons to Eliezer; and the sons of Rehabiah increased in stature.
1CH 23:18 The sons of Izhar - Shelomith the ruler.
1CH 23:19 The sons of Hebron - Jeriah the ruler, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
1CH 23:20 The sons of Uzziel - Michah the ruler, and Jesiah the second.
1CH 23:21 The sons of Merari - Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli - Eleazar, and Kish.
1CH 23:22 And Eleazar died, and there were not sons to him, but only daughters. And the sons of Kish their brothers took them.
1CH 23:23 The sons of Mushi - Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
1CH 23:24 These were the sons of Levi according to the houses of their families; rulers of their families according to their numbering, according to the number of their names, according to their head count, the ones doing the works of the ministration of the house of the LORD, from twenty years and up.
1CH 23:25 For David said, The LORD God of Israel rested his people, and encamped in Jerusalem unto the eon.
1CH 23:26 And also to the Levites it is not to lift the tent, nor any of its items for its ministration.
1CH 23:27 For in the last words of David was the number of the sons of Levi from twenty years and up.
1CH 23:28 For he established them for the hand of the sons of Aaron, to officiate in the house of the LORD, over the courtyards, and over the chambers, and over the cleansing of all the holy things, and over the works of the ministration of the house of God;
1CH 23:29 and for the breads of the place setting, and for the fine flour of the sacrifice offering, and for the unleavened cakes, and for the frying pan, and for the mixture, and for every measure;
1CH 23:30 and to stand in the morning to praise and to make acknowledgement to the LORD, and so the evening;
1CH 23:31 and upon all the offerings of whole burnt offerings to the LORD on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the holidays, according to number, according to the ordinance upon them, always before the LORD.
1CH 23:32 And they shall guard the watches of the tent of the testimony, and the watch of the holy place, and the watches of the sons of Aaron their brothers, to officiate in the house of the LORD.
1CH 24:1 And the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron - Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1CH 24:2 And Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and there were not sons to them. And Eleazar and Ithamar the sons of Aaron officiated as priest.
1CH 24:3 And David divided them, even Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar according to their numbering, according to their ministration.
1CH 24:4 And more sons of Eleazar were found as rulers of the mighty ones than of the sons of Ithamar. And he divided them to the sons of Eleazar for rulers for the houses of the families - sixteen. And to the sons of Ithamar according to the houses of their families - eight.
1CH 24:5 And he divided them by lots - these with these. For they were rulers of the holies, and rulers of God among the sons of Eleazar, and among the sons of Ithamar.
1CH 24:6 And Shemaiah son of Nethaneel the scribe from Levi wrote them before the king, and the rulers, and Zadok of the priest, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the rulers of the families of the priests and the Levites. The house of the one family, one to Eleazar; and the house of the one family, one to Ithamar.
1CH 24:7 And the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib; to Jedaiah the second,
1CH 24:8 to Harim the third, to Seorim the fourth,
1CH 24:9 to Malchijah the fifth, to Mijamin the sixth,
1CH 24:10 to Hakkoz the seventh, to Abijah the eighth,
1CH 24:11 to Jeshua the ninth, to Shechaniah the tenth,
1CH 24:12 to Eliashib the eleventh, to Jakim the twelfth,
1CH 24:13 to Huppah the thirteenth, to Jeshabeab the fourteenth,
1CH 24:14 to Bilgah the fifteenth, to Immer the sixteenth,
1CH 24:15 to Hezir the seventeenth, to Apses the eighteenth,
1CH 24:16 to Pethahiah the nineteenth, to Jehezekel the twentieth,
1CH 24:17 to Jachin the first and twentieth, to Gamul the second and twentieth,
1CH 24:18 to Delaiah the third and twentieth, to Maaziah the fourth and twentieth.
1CH 24:19 This is their numbering according to their ministration, to enter into the house of the LORD, according to their ordinance, by the hand of Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel gave charge.
1CH 24:20 And to the sons of Levi remaining; to the sons of Amram - Shubael; to the sons of Shubael - Jehdeiah.
1CH 24:21 To Rehabiah, to the sons of Rehabiah the ruler Iesshiah;
1CH 24:22 and to Izhar - Shelomoth; to the sons of Shelomoth - Jahath;
1CH 24:23 to the sons of Jeriah - Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth;
1CH 24:24 to the sons of Uzziel - Michah; to the sons of Michah - Shamir.
1CH 24:25 The brother of Michah - Isshiah; to the son of Isshiah - Zechariah.
1CH 24:26 To the sons of Merari - Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah - Beno.
1CH 24:27 The sons of Merari to Jaaziah - his son, Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.
1CH 24:28 To Mahli - Eleazar, and there were not sons to him.
1CH 24:29 To Kish, the sons of Kish - Jerahmeel.
1CH 24:30 The sons of Mushi - Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to the houses of their families.
1CH 24:31 And they took also for themselves lots as their brothers the sons of Aaron before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the rulers of the families of the priests, and the Levites, patriarchs Araab as his younger brothers.
1CH 25:1 And David the king and the rulers of the force established for the works some of the sons of Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun, the ones declaring with lutes, and with stringed instruments, and with cymbals. And their number was according to the head count of men working in their service.
1CH 25:2 The sons of Asaph - Zaccur and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah; the sons of Asaph being next to Asaph the prophet, being next to the king.
1CH 25:3 To Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun - Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, and Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, along with their father Jeduthun, prophesying with the lute, in acknowledgment and praise to the LORD.
1CH 25:4 To Heman, the sons of Heman - Bukkiah, and Mattaniah, and Uzziel, and Shebuel, and Jerimoth, and Hananiah, and Hanani, and Eliathah, and Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, and Joshbekashah, and Mallothi, and Hothir, and Mahazioth.
1CH 25:5 All these were sons to Heman the seer to the king in words of God, to raise up high the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
1CH 25:6 All these with their father singing hymns in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, and with stringed instruments, and with lutes, for the service of the house of God, being next to the king, even Asaph and Jeduthun and Heman.
1CH 25:7 And their number was, with their brothers being taught to sing to the LORD, every one perceiving singing - two hundred eighty and eight.
1CH 25:8 And they threw for themselves lots for the daily rotations, according to the small and according to the great, the ones perfected and the one learning.
1CH 25:9 And the first lot came forth to Asaph of Joseph. To Gedeliah the second, he and his brothers and his sons - twelve.
1CH 25:10 The third to Zaccur, he and his brothers and his sons - twelve.
1CH 25:11 The fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:12 The fifth to Nethaniah, his sons, and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:13 The sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:14 The seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:15 The eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:16 The ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:17 The tenth Shimei, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:18 The eleventh to Azareel, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:19 The twelfth to Hashabiah his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:20 The thirteenth to Shubael, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:21 The fourteenth to Mattithiah, his sons, and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:23 The sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:24 The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:25 The eighteenth to Hanani, his sons, and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:26 The nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:27 The twentieth to Eliatha, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:28 The twentieth and first to Hothir, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:29 The twentieth and second to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:30 The twentieth and third to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 25:31 The twentieth and fourth to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers - twelve.
1CH 26:1 For the divisions of the gates; to the Korhites - Meshelemiah son of Kore, from out of the sons of Asaph.
1CH 26:2 And to Meshelemiah - sons Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
1CH 26:3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.
1CH 26:4 And to Obed Edom sons - Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethaneel the fifth,
1CH 26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth - for God blessed him.
1CH 26:6 And to Shemaiah his son were born sons being ordained in the house of their father, for they were mighty in strength.
1CH 26:7 The sons of Shemaiah - Othni, and Raphael, and Obed, and Elzabad, and his brothers were mighty sons, Elihu, and Semachiah.
1CH 26:8 All these were sons of Obed Edom, they and their sons, and their brothers doing mightily in the work - sixty two to Obed Edom.
1CH 26:9 And to Meshelemiah sons and brothers, mighty men - eighteen.
1CH 26:10 And to Hosah of the sons of Merari, the sons guarding the office, but he was not the first-born, but his father made him ruler.
1CH 26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All these sons and brothers to Hosah - thirteen.
1CH 26:12 Among these were the divisions of the gates, to the rulers of the mighty men, in daily rotations as their brothers, to officiate in the house of the LORD.
1CH 26:13 And they threw lots for the small and for the great, according to the houses of their families, for gate by gate.
1CH 26:14 And the lot of the gates towards the east fell to Shelemiah. And for Zechariah his son, a counselor with skillfulness, they threw lots; and the lot came forth of his for the north gate.
1CH 26:15 To Obed Edom according to the south, and to his sons over against the house of collections.
1CH 26:16 To Hosah to the west with the gate of the chamber by the road of the ascent, watch against watch.
1CH 26:17 Towards the east, the six Levites for the day, towards the north - four for the day; towards the south and to the collections two by two for relieving.
1CH 26:18 And towards the west - four; and at the road two by two relieving.
1CH 26:19 These are the divisions of the gatekeepers for the sons of Kore, and the sons of Merari.
1CH 26:20 And the Levites of their brothers were over the treasures of the house of the LORD, and over the treasures of the holy things.
1CH 26:21 The sons of Laadan; the sons of Gershon - to Laadan, rulers of the families of Ladan - to Gershon - Jehieli.
1CH 26:22 The sons of Jehieli - Zetham, and Joel his brother, who were over the treasures of the house of the LORD.
1CH 26:23 To Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
1CH 26:24 And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was leading over the treasures.
1CH 26:25 And to his brother Eliezer - Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.
1CH 26:26 He Shelomith and his brothers were over all the treasures of the holies which David the king sanctified, and the rulers of the families - commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, and chiefs of the force,
1CH 26:27 which they took from out of the cities, and from the bounty. And he sanctified of them, so as to not be late in the construction of the house of the LORD;
1CH 26:28 and upon all the holy things of God as much as was sanctified by Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, and all being sanctified through the hand of Shelomith and his brothers.
1CH 26:29 To the Izharites - Chenaniah and his sons were for the work of the effort of the outside over Israel, to act as scribe and to litigate.
1CH 26:30 To the Hebronites - Hashabiah and his brothers, sons of power, a thousand and seven hundred, were the ones over the reviewing of Israel on the other side of the Jordan to the west, for every ministration of the LORD, and work of the king.
1CH 26:31 Of the Hebronites; Jerijah was the ruler of the Hebronites according to their generations, and according to their families. In the fortieth year of the kingship of David they were numbered, and the mighty man was found among them in Jazer of the Gileadite.
1CH 26:32 And his brothers were mighty sons - two thousand seven hundred rulers of the families. And David the king placed them over the Reubenites, and Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every matter of God, and matter of the king.
1CH 27:1 And the sons of Israel according to their number, rulers of the families, commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, and scribes officiating to the king, and in every matter of the king according to their divisions, for every matter entering and going forth month by month for all the months of the year - one division was twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:2 And over the first division of the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:3 From the sons of Perez was the ruler of all of the rulers of the force of the first month.
1CH 27:4 And over the division of the second month was Dodai the Ahohite, and of his division even Mikloth was the ruler; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:5 The third ruler of the force for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the ruling priest; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:6 This Benaiah was mightier than the thirty, and over the thirty; and over his division was Ammizabad his son.
1CH 27:7 The fourth ruler for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son, and his brothers after him; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:8 The fifth ruler for the fifth month, the ruler was Shamhuth the Izrahite; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:9 The sixth ruler for the sixth month was Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:10 The seventh ruler for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, from the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:11 The eighth ruler for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite to the Zarhites; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:12 The ninth ruler for the ninth month was Abiezer of Anathoth of the Benjamites; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:13 The tenth ruler for the tenth month was Maharai of Netopha to the Zarhites; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:14 The eleventh ruler for the eleventh month was Benaiah of Piarathon, of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:15 The twelfth ruler for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite to Othniel; and in his division were twenty and four thousand.
1CH 27:16 And over the tribes of Israel; to Reuben leading was Eliezer son of Zichri; to Simeon was Shephatiah the son of Maachah;
1CH 27:17 to Levi was Hashabiah son Kamuel; to Aaron was Zadok;
1CH 27:18 to Judah was Elihu of the brothers of David; to Issachar was Omri the son of Michael;
1CH 27:19 to Zebulun was Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; to Naphtali was Jerimoth the son of Azriel;
1CH 27:20 to Ephraim was Hoshea the son of Azaziah; to the half tribe of Manasseh was Joel son of Pedaiah;
1CH 27:21 to the half tribe of Manasseh of the ones in the land of Gilead was Iddo the son of Zechariah; to the sons of Benjamin was Jaasiel the son of Abner;
1CH 27:22 to Dan was Azareel the son of Jeroham. These were the patriarchs of the tribes of Israel.
1CH 27:23 And David did not take their number from twenty years and below; for the LORD spoke to multiply Israel as the stars of the heaven.
1CH 27:24 And Joab the son of Zeruiah began to count among the people, and he did not complete it. And anger against Israel happened because of this. And the number was not set down in writing in a scroll of the matters of the days of king David.
1CH 27:25 And over the storehouses of the king was Azmaveth the son of Adiel. And over the storehouses in the country, and in the cities, and in the towns, and in the estates, and in the towers, was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah.
1CH 27:26 And over the ones cultivating the ground of the ones being worked was Ezri the son of Chelub.
1CH 27:27 And over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite. And over the storehouses in the fields for the wine was Zabdi the one of Shiphmi.
1CH 27:28 And over the olive groves and over the sycamine trees in the plain was Baal-hanan the Gederite. And over the storehouses of the olive oil was Joash.
1CH 27:29 And over the oxen grazing in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite. And over the oxen in the canyons was Shaphat son Adlai.
1CH 27:30 And over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite. And over the donkeys was Jehdeiah the one of Merathon.
1CH 27:31 And over the sheep was Jaziz the Hagerite. All these were rulers of the possessions of David the king.
1CH 27:32 And Jonathan, the uncle of David, was a counselor, a discerning man, and a scribe himself; and Jehiel the one of the Hachmoni was with the sons of the king.
1CH 27:33 And Ahitophel was counselor of the king, and Hushai was the foremost friend of the king.
1CH 27:34 And after Ahitophel next was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. And Joab was commander-in-chief for the king.
1CH 28:1 And David held an assembly of all the rulers of Israel, rulers of the tribes, and the rulers of the divisions of the daily rotations of the ones ministering to the king, and the rulers of the thousands, and of the hundreds, and of the keepers of the treasury, and of the ones over his possessions, and all the property of the king, and of his sons, with the eunuchs, and the mighty ones, and the warriors of the military in Jerusalem.
1CH 28:2 And David the king stood in the midst of the assembly, and said, Hear me my brothers, and my people! It came to me in heart to build a house for a rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and a station to be the footstool of the feet of God. And I prepared the things needful for the construction.
1CH 28:3 And God said, You shall not build to me a house to name my name upon it, for you are a man of war, and you poured out blood.
1CH 28:4 And the LORD God of Israel chose by me from out of all the house of my father to be king over Israel into the eon; even for Judah to take up the crown; even of the house of Judah, the house of my father; even among the sons of my father; in me he wanted me to become king over all Israel.
1CH 28:5 And of all my sons (for the LORD gave to me many sons) he chose Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel.
1CH 28:6 And God said to me, Solomon your son shall build my house, and my courtyards; for I chose in him to be to me for a son, and I will be to him for a father.
1CH 28:7 And I will set up his kingdom unto the eon, if he should be strong to do, and to guard my commandments and my judgments, as in this day.
1CH 28:8 And now according to the eyes of all Israel, of every assembly of the LORD, and in the ears of our God, guard and seek all the commandments of the LORD our God! that you should inherit the good land, and should inherit it to your sons after you unto the eon.
1CH 28:9 And now, Solomon, O my son, know the God of your fathers, and serve to him with a perfect heart and a willing soul! for the LORD inquires diligently of all hearts, and every idea of thoughts he knows. If you should seek him, he will be found by you. And if you should leave him, he shall leave you to the end.
1CH 28:10 Behold now! For the LORD has taken you to build for him a house for a sanctuary; be strong, and act!
1CH 28:11 And David gave to Solomon his son the plan of the temple, and its houses, and its treasuries, and the upper rooms, and the inner storerooms, and the house of the atonement-seat,
1CH 28:12 and the plan of all which was in his spirit, and of the courtyards of the house of the LORD, and all of the chambers round about of the places for the storehouses of the house of the LORD, and of the storehouses of the holy things;
1CH 28:13 and for the divisions of daily rotations of the priests and the Levites, and for every work of ministration of the house of the LORD, and of the storehouses of the items of ministrations of the service of the house of the LORD;
1CH 28:14 and for the gold and the weight of its scale-weight, for all the items service by service, and to all the items of silver in weight, to every item service by service;
1CH 28:15 and the weight to the lamp-stands in gold, and to their lamps; gold in weight lamp-stand by lamp-stand, and to its lamps, and to the lamp-stands. But of the gold and silver lamp-stands he gave to him of the scale-weight of money, and the lamp-stands he gave to him the scale-weight.
1CH 28:16 In like manner he gave the weight for the tables of the place setting - each one a table of gold; and likewise the tables made of silver,
1CH 28:17 and the meat hooks, and libation bowls, and bowls of gold, and the basins of gold in weight for basin and basin; and the weight of the things of gold, and of the ones of silver of each weight;
1CH 28:18 and the thing for the altar of the incenses - the weight of the unadulterated gold. And he plainly showed to him the plan of the chariot of the cherubim opening and spreading out the wings, and shadowing over the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
1CH 28:19 All in the writing by the hand of the LORD David gave to Solomon, according to the advantage to him for understanding of the working out of the plan.
1CH 28:20 And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and manly, and act! Do not fear nor be terrified! for the LORD my God is with you. He will not forsake you, and in no way should he abandon you until you complete every ministration of work of the house of the LORD.
1CH 28:21 And behold, the daily rotations of the priests and the Levites are for all the ministration of the house of God. And with you in every work, all eager in every voluntary thing, in wisdom according to every craft, are even the rulers, and all the people for all your words.
1CH 29:1 And David the king said to all the assembly, Solomon my son, in whom the LORD has taken for himself, is young and tender, and the work is great; for the place of abode is not to man, but only to the LORD God.
1CH 29:2 And I according to all my power have prepared for the house of my God - the gold for a gold thing, and the silver for a silver thing, and the brass for a brass thing, and the iron for an iron thing, and wood for a wood thing, and onyx stones, and fullness of very costly and colored stones, and every valuable stone, and stones of Paros in multitude.
1CH 29:3 And still, because of my favoring for the house of my God, there is to me gold and silver which I procured; and behold, I give it for the house of my God, for above and outside what I prepared for the house of the holy place -
1CH 29:4 three thousand talents of gold from Ophir, and seven thousand talents of unadulterated silver, to overlay by them the walls of the temple;
1CH 29:5 for the gold for the gold thing, and for the silver for the silver thing, and for every work by the hand of craftsmen. And who then is feeling eager to fill his hands today to the LORD?
1CH 29:6 And the rulers of the families were eager, and the rulers of the sons of Israel, and the commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, and the superintendents of the works, and the managers of the king.
1CH 29:7 And they gave for the works of the house of the LORD five thousand talents of gold, and ten thousand dracmas, and ten thousand talents of silver, and ten thousand and eight thousand talents of brass, and of iron a hundred thousand talents.
1CH 29:8 And the ones who were found with themselves having precious stones gave to the storehouses of the house of the LORD, through the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
1CH 29:9 And the people were glad over the voluntary offering, for from a full heart they were volunteering to the LORD. And David the king was glad with great gladness.
1CH 29:10 And king David blessed the LORD before the assembly, saying, Blessed are you, O LORD God of Israel, our father from the eon and unto the eon.
1CH 29:11 To you, O LORD, is the greatness, and the power, and the majesty, and the victory, and the acknowledgment. For you are master of all the things in heaven and upon the earth. To you, O LORD, is the kingdom, and the raising in all, and in all rule.
1CH 29:12 From you are the riches and the glory. You rule all, O LORD, ruler of all sovereignty. And in your hand is strength and dominion; and in your hand is to magnify, and to strengthen all.
1CH 29:13 And now, O LORD, we make acknowledgment to you, and we praise the name of your glory.
1CH 29:14 And who am I, and what is my people, that we were strong to volunteer to you thus? For all things are yours, and from out of your things we give to you.
1CH 29:15 For we are sojourners before you, and sojourners as all our fathers. And our days are as shadows upon the earth, and there is not a waiting.
1CH 29:16 O LORD our God, to all this abundance which we prepared for you to build a house to your name - to the holy name, for it is from your hand, and all things are yours.
1CH 29:17 And I know, O LORD, that you are the one examining hearts, and loving righteousness. And I in singleness of heart volunteered all these things. And now, your people, being found here, see with gladness, volunteering to you.
1CH 29:18 O LORD, God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Israel, of the ones of our fathers, keep of them the thing shaped of the thoughts of the heart of your people into the eon! And straighten out their hearts to you!
1CH 29:19 And give to my son Solomon a good heart to observe your commandments and your testimonies and your orders, and to lead all unto completion, and to build the furnishing of your house which I prepared!
1CH 29:20 And David said to all the assembly, Bless indeed the LORD our God! And all the assembly blessed the LORD, the God of their fathers, and bent the knees to do obeisance to the LORD, and to the king.
1CH 29:21 And David sacrificed to the LORD a sacrifice, and offered whole burnt offerings to the LORD on the next day of the first day - of a thousand calves, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs, and their libations, and sacrifices in multitude for all Israel.
1CH 29:22 And they ate and drank before the LORD in that day with great joy. And they gave reign for a second time for Solomon son of David. And they anointed him to the LORD as king, and Zadok for priest.
1CH 29:23 And Solomon sat upon the throne of the LORD as king instead of David his father. And he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him.
1CH 29:24 And the rulers, and the mighty ones, and also all the sons of king David submitted to him.
1CH 29:25 And the LORD magnified Solomon before all Israel, and put upon him glory of the kingdom as had not happened unto any king before him over Israel.
1CH 29:26 And David son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
1CH 29:27 And the days which he reigned over Israel - forty years. In Hebron he reigned seven years, and in Jerusalem thirty-three years.
1CH 29:28 And he died in a good old age, full of days, in wealth and glory. And Solomon his son reigned instead of him.
1CH 29:29 And the rest of the words of David the king, the ones former and the ones latter, behold, they are written in the words of Samuel the seer, and by the words of Nathan the prophet, and by the words of Gad the seer,
1CH 29:30 concerning all his kingship, and all his dominion, and of the events of the times spreading unto him, and unto Israel, and unto all the kingdoms of the lands.
2CH 1:1 And Solomon son of David grew in strength over his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him, and magnified him in stature.
2CH 1:2 And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands, and to the commanders of hundreds, and to the judges, and to all the rulers before all Israel - to the rulers of the families.
2CH 1:3 And Solomon went out, and all the assembly with him, unto the high place in Gibeon; of which the tent of the testimony of God was located, which Moses the servant of the LORD made in the wilderness.
2CH 1:4 But David brought the ark of God from out of the city of Kirjath Jearim, for the place David prepared for it, for he pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem.
2CH 1:5 And the altar of brass which Bezaleel son of Uri son of Hur made was there before the tent of the LORD. And Solomon and the assembly sought by it.
2CH 1:6 And Solomon offered there upon the altar of brass before the LORD in the tent of the testimony. And he offered upon it a thousand whole burnt offerings.
2CH 1:7 In that night God appeared to Solomon, and said to him, Ask! what I shall give to you?
2CH 1:8 And Solomon said to God, You performed with David my father a great act of kindness, and gave me reign instead of him.
2CH 1:9 And now, O LORD God, let your word be trustworthy with David my father! for you gave me reign over a people vast as the dust of the earth.
2CH 1:10 Now give to me wisdom and understanding! and I shall go forth before this people and enter in. For who shall judge this your great people?
2CH 1:11 And God said to Solomon, Because this happened in your heart, and you asked not for wealth of things, nor glory, nor the life of the ones detesting you, and you did not ask for many days - but you asked for yourself wisdom and understanding, so as to judge my people upon whom I gave you to reign over it.
2CH 1:12 The wisdom and the understanding I give to you; and wealth, and possessions, and glory I shall give to you, as did not happen likened unto you among the kings before you, and it will not be thus after you.
2CH 1:13 And Solomon came from Bama in Gibeon unto Jerusalem, from the face of the tent of the testimony, and reigned over Israel.
2CH 1:14 And Solomon brought together chariots and horsemen. And there were to him a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. And he left them in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem.
2CH 1:15 And the king established silver and gold in Jerusalem as stones, and the cedars in Judea as sycamine trees in the plains in multitude.
2CH 1:16 And there was an exodus of the horses to Solomon from Egypt, and they were bought by the value of the merchants of the king to go forth.
2CH 1:17 And they ascended and brought from out of Egypt one chariot for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for fifty and a hundred. And thus to all the kings of the Hittites, and to the kings of Syria, they brought them forth by their hands.
2CH 2:1 And Solomon spoke to build the house to the name of the LORD, and a house for his kingdom.
2CH 2:2 And Solomon brought together seventy thousand men load carriers, and eighty thousand men quarrying in the mountain, and the supervisors over them - three thousand and six hundred.
2CH 2:3 And Solomon sent to Hiram king of Tyre, saying, As you did with David my father, and sent to him cedars to build for himself a house to dwell in it,
2CH 2:4 then behold, I his son am building a house to the name of the LORD my God, to sanctify it to him, to burn before him incense of aromatics, and for a place setting to be continually before him, and to offer whole burnt offerings continually in the morning and the evening, and on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the holidays of the LORD our God - into the eon this is for Israel.
2CH 2:5 And the house which I build is to be great; for great is the LORD our God beyond all the gods.
2CH 2:6 And who is strong to build to him a house? for the heaven and the heaven of the heaven does not bear him. And who am I building to him a house, except to burn incense in front of him?
2CH 2:7 And now, send to me a wise man, and one knowing how to prepare in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and in scarlet, and in blue, and having knowledge to carve carved works with the wise ones with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father prepared!
2CH 2:8 And send to me timbers of cedars, and of junipers, and of pines, from out of Lebanon! for I know that your servants know how to fell timbers from Lebanon. And behold, my servants shall go with your servants,
2CH 2:9 to prepare for me timbers in multitude - for the house which I build is great and glorious.
2CH 2:10 And behold, to the ones working in the felling timbers, I have given grain for foods as gifts to your servants of cors of wheat - twenty thousand, and barley cors - twenty thousand, and wine measures - twenty thousand, and olive oil measures - twenty thousand.
2CH 2:11 And Hiram king of Tyre spoke by writing. And he sent to Solomon, saying, In the LORD loving his people, he put you over them for king.
2CH 2:12 And Hiram said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who made the heaven and the earth, who gave to king David a wise son, and knowing understanding and higher knowledge, who shall build a house to the LORD, and a house for his kingdom.
2CH 2:13 And now I have sent to you a man wise and knowing understanding - Hiram my servant,
2CH 2:14 a son of a woman from the daughters of Dan, and his father is a Tyrian man, knowing how to prepare in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in stones, and woods, and to weave in purple, and in blue, and in linen, and in scarlet, and to carve carvings, and to consider every device in which ever you should give to him with your wise ones, and the wise ones of my master David your father.
2CH 2:15 And now the grain, and the barley, and the olive oil, and the wine which my master spoke, let him send it to his servants!
2CH 2:16 And we will fell trees from out of Lebanon, according to all your need. And we will bring them by barge upon the sea to Joppa, and you shall bring them up unto Jerusalem.
2CH 2:17 And Solomon gathered all the men of the foreigners in the land of Israel, after the count which David his father counted them; and were found a hundred fifty thousand and three thousand six hundred.
2CH 2:18 And he made of them seventy thousand load carriers, and eighty thousand quarriers in the mountain, and three thousand six hundred foremen over the people.
2CH 3:1 And Solomon began to build the house of the LORD in Jerusalem on mount Moriah, of which the LORD appeared to David his father, in the place which David prepared on the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
2CH 3:2 And he began to build in the second month, in the fourth year of his kingdom.
2CH 3:3 And with these Solomon began to build the house of God - the length of the first measurement was sixty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
2CH 3:4 And the columned porch before the face of the house - its length upon the face of the width of the house was twenty cubits, and the height was a hundred and twenty cubits. And he gilded it inside in pure gold.
2CH 3:5 And the great house he boarded with woods of cedars, and gilded it in pure gold, and carved upon it palms and chainwork.
2CH 3:6 And he adorned the house with valuable stones for glory; and the gold was gold from Parvaim.
2CH 3:7 And he gilded the house, and its walls, and the gatehouses, and the roofing, and the doorways with gold; and he carved cherubim upon the walls.
2CH 3:8 And he made the house of the holy of the holies - its length upon the face of the width of the house was twenty cubits, and the breadth was twenty cubits. And he gilded it in pure gold, amounting to six hundred talents.
2CH 3:9 And the scale-weight of the nails - the scale-weight of the one was fifty shekels of gold. And the upper room he gilded in gold.
2CH 3:10 And he made in the house, in the holy of the holies, two cherubim, a work of incorruptible wood, and gilded them in gold.
2CH 3:11 And the wings of the cherubim - the length was twenty cubits, and to the one wing was five cubits touching the wall of the house.
2CH 3:12 And the other wing was five cubits, touching the wing of the other cherub.
2CH 3:13 And the wings of these cherubim, being open and spread out, was twenty cubits. And these stood upon their feet, and their faces were towards the house.
2CH 3:14 And he made the veil out of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and of linen, and wove cherubim in it.
2CH 3:15 And he made in front of the house two columns - thirty-five cubits in height, and their capitals were five cubits.
2CH 3:16 And he made chain-work in the dabir, and put them upon the tops of the columns. And he made a hundred figures of pomegranates, and put them upon the chainwork.
2CH 3:17 And he set the columns at the front of the temple, one at the right, and one at the left. And he called the name of the one at the right - Success, and the name of the one at the left - Strength.
2CH 4:1 And he made an altar of brass - twenty cubits was the length, and twenty cubits the breadth, and ten cubits the height.
2CH 4:2 And he made the cast sea - ten cubits the diameter, from its lip to its lip, globular round about, and five cubits was the height, and the circumference - thirty cubits encircled it round about.
2CH 4:3 And a representation of calves was underneath it, round about encircling it; ten in a cubit encircling the sea round about; with two rows of cast oxen in their being cast in a furnace,
2CH 4:4 in which they made them. And standing upon twelve calves was the sea. The three were looking north, and the three were looking west, and the three were looking south, and the three were looking towards the east. And the sea was upon them upward. And their posteriors were towards the inside.
2CH 4:5 And its thickness was a palm, and its lip was as a lip of a cup, having been carved of buds of a lily, having a capacity of three thousand measures. And he completed it.
2CH 4:6 And he made ten bathing tubs, and put five on the right, and five on the left, to wash in them the works of the whole burnt offerings, and to rinse off in them. But the sea was for the washing of the priests in it.
2CH 4:7 And he made the lamp-stands of gold - ten, according to their distinguishing manner. And he put them in the temple - five on the right, and five on the left.
2CH 4:8 And he made ten tables, and put them in the temple - five on the right, and five on the left. And he made a hundred bowls of gold.
2CH 4:9 And he made the courtyard of the priests, and the great courtyard, and doors for the courtyard - and their doorways were being brazed in brass.
2CH 4:10 And the sea he put at the corner of the house from out of the right towards the east of the part towards the south.
2CH 4:11 And Hiram made the kettles, and the meat hooks, and the censers. And Hiram completed doing all the work which he did for Solomon the king in the house of God -
2CH 4:12 making two columns, and the pommels, and the capitals upon the tops of the two columns, and two latticed works to cover up the two pommels of the capitals, which are upon the tops of the columns;
2CH 4:13 and pomegranates of gold - four hundred for the two latticed works; two kinds of pomegranates on the one latticed work, to cover the two bases of the capitals which are upon the columns.
2CH 4:14 And he made the bases - ten; and the bathing tubs he made upon the bases,
2CH 4:15 and the one sea, and the twelve calves underneath it,
2CH 4:16 and the kettles, and the meat hooks, and bowls - even all their items which Hiram made. And he brought to king Solomon in the house of the LORD - all of pure brass.
2CH 4:17 In the place round about the Jordan the king cast them in the thick earth, between Succoth and between Zeredathah.
2CH 4:18 And Solomon made all these items in multitude - exceedingly. For the scale-weight of the brass was not wanting.
2CH 4:19 And Solomon made all the items of the house of the LORD; even the altar of gold, and the tables. And upon them were breads of the place setting.
2CH 4:20 And the lamp-stands, and the lamps for the light according to the distinguishing manner in front of the dabir were of pure gold.
2CH 4:21 And their lamps, and their tongs, and the bowls, and the incense pans, and the censers were of pure gold.
2CH 4:22 And the inner door of the house, which is in the holies of the holies, and the doors of the house of the temple, were in gold.
2CH 5:1 And all the work was completed which Solomon did in the house of the LORD. And Solomon carried in the holy things of David his father, and the silver, and the gold, and all the items, and put them in a treasury house of the LORD.
2CH 5:2 Then Solomon held an assembly of all the elders of Israel, and all the rulers of the tribes, rulers of the families of the sons of Israel in Jerusalem, to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD from out of the city of David - this is Zion.
2CH 5:3 And every man of Israel was assembled unto the king in the holiday - this the seventh month.
2CH 5:4 And all the elders of Israel came; and all the Levites took the ark.
2CH 5:5 And they brought the ark, and the tent of the testimony, and all the holy items in the tent - even the priests and the Levites brought it.
2CH 5:6 And king Solomon, and all the gathering of Israel, and the ones being assembled unto him before the ark, were sacrificing calves and sheep which shall not be counted nor considered because of the multitude.
2CH 5:7 And the priests carried in the ark of the covenant of the LORD into its place, into the dabir of the house, into the holies of the holies, underneath the wings of the cherubim.
2CH 5:8 And the cherubim were being opened and spread out of their wings over the place of the ark. And the cherubim covered the ark, and over its bearing poles on top.
2CH 5:9 And the bearing poles projected, and the tips of the bearing poles were seen from the ark of the holies in front of the dabir; and they were not seen outside. And they were there until this day.
2CH 5:10 Not a thing was in the ark except the two tablets which Moses stationed at Horeb, which the LORD ordained with the sons of Israel, in their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt.
2CH 5:11 And it came to pass in the coming forth of the priests from out of the holy places (for all the priests being found were sanctified, for they were not then set in order according to daily rotation),
2CH 5:12 and the Levites, the psalm singers, all with the sons of Asaph, with Heman, with Jeduthun, and to their sons, and to their brothers putting on apparels of fine linen, were with cymbals, and with stringed instruments, and with lutes, standing over against the altar, and with them a hundred and twenty priests trumpeting with the trumpets.
2CH 5:13 And there was one sound in the trumpeting, and in the singing along with stringed instruments, and in the sounding out loud with one voice to praise and to make acknowledgement to the LORD. And as they raised up high the voice with the trumpets, and with cymbals, and with instruments of the odes, that they said, Make acknowledgment to the LORD for he is good, for into the eon is his mercy! And the house was filled up of the cloud and of the glory of the LORD.
2CH 5:14 And the priests were not able to stand to officiate before the face of the cloud; for the glory of the LORD filled up the house of God.
2CH 6:1 Then Solomon said, The LORD spoke to encamp in dimness.
2CH 6:2 And I have built a house to your name, holy to you, and prepared to encamp into the eons.
2CH 6:3 And the king turned his face, and blessed all the assembly of Israel. And all the assembly of Israel stood by.
2CH 6:4 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who spoke by his mouth to David my father, and by his hands he fulfilled, saying,
2CH 6:5 From the day which I led my people from out of the land of Egypt, I did not choose a city from all the tribes of Israel to build a house for my name to be there, and I did not choose a man to be for leader over my people Israel.
2CH 6:6 But I chose Jerusalem for my name to be there; and I chose David to be above my people Israel.
2CH 6:7 And it came upon the heart of David my father to build a house to the name of the LORD God of Israel.
2CH 6:8 And the LORD said to David my father, Since it was upon your heart to build a house to my name, you do well, for it was upon your heart.
2CH 6:9 Except you shall not build to me a house; for your son who comes forth from out of your loin, he shall build the house to my name.
2CH 6:10 And the LORD established the word which he spoke, and I became instead of David my father, and I sit upon the throne of Israel, as the LORD said; and I built the house to the name of the LORD God of Israel.
2CH 6:11 And I put there the ark, in which the covenant of the LORD is located which he ordained with Israel.
2CH 6:12 And he stood before the altar of the LORD, before all the assembly of Israel; and opened and spread out his hands.
2CH 6:13 For Solomon made a brass platform, and put it in the midst of the courtyard of the temple - five cubits was its length, and five cubits was its breadth, and three cubits was its height. And he stood upon it, and bent upon his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and opened and spread out his hands into the heaven.
2CH 6:14 And he said, O LORD God of Israel, there is not a God likened to you in heaven, nor upon the earth, keeping the covenant, (and showing mercy to your children going before you with all their heart);
2CH 6:15 which you kept with your servant David my father, which you spoke to him; and you spoke by your mouth, and by your hands you fulfilled it, as this day.
2CH 6:16 And now, O LORD the God of Israel, keep with your servant David, my father, what you spoke to him, saying, There shall not fail to you a man from before my face sitting upon the throne of Israel; if only your sons should guard their way to go by my law, as you went before me.
2CH 6:17 And now, O LORD God of Israel, let your saying indeed be trustworthy, which you spoke to your manservant David.
2CH 6:18 For shall God truly dwell with men upon the earth? If the heaven and the heaven of the heaven is not sufficient to you; then what is this house which I built?
2CH 6:19 And should you look upon the prayer of your manservant, and upon his supplication, O LORD my God, to heed the supplication and the prayer which your manservant prayed before you today;
2CH 6:20 for your eyes to be open unto this house day and night, in this place which you said to call upon your name there; to hear the prayer which your manservant prayed in this place;
2CH 6:21 then shall you hear the supplication of your manservant, and of your people Israel, in what ever they should pray to this place; and you shall hear from the place of your dwelling - from the heaven; and you shall hear and shall be propitious.
2CH 6:22 If a man should sin against his neighbor, and he takes upon him an oath to cause him to make an oath, and he should come and make an oath against the altar in this house;
2CH 6:23 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, and shall act, and shall judge your servants, to recompense to the lawless one, and to recompense his ways upon his head; and to do justice to the just one, to recompense to him according to his righteousness.
2CH 6:24 And if your people Israel should be devastated before an enemy, if they should sin against you, and should turn, and should acknowledge your name, and should pray, and should beseech before you in this house;
2CH 6:25 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, and you shall be propitious to the sins of your people Israel, and shall return them into the land which you gave to them and to their fathers.
2CH 6:26 And in the holding together the heaven, and there is no rain, because they sinned against you; and they pray to this place, and confess to your name, and from their sins they shall turn, because you shall humble them;
2CH 6:27 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, and shall be propitious to the sins of your servants, and your people Israel, that you shall make manifest to them the good way in which they shall go by it; and you shall put rain upon your land, which you gave to your people for an inheritance.
2CH 6:28 If famine happens upon the land, if plague happens, wind-blown blight, jaundice; if there should be locust and grasshopper, and if its enemies should afflict it in the land against its cities; according to every calamity and every misery;
2CH 6:29 then every prayer, and all supplication, whichever should be by any man, and all your people Israel, if a man should know his infection and his infirmity, and should open and spread out his hands to this house;
2CH 6:30 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, from out of your prepared home, and you shall atone, and shall give to a man according to his ways (as you should know his heart, for you most only know the heart of the sons of men),
2CH 6:31 so that they should fear you, to go in all your ways, all the days which they should live upon the face of the land which you gave to our fathers.
2CH 6:32 And also every alien who is not of your people Israel, and should come from out of a land far off because of your great name, and your fortified hand, and your high arm; and should come and should pray in this place;
2CH 6:33 then you shall listen from out of the heaven, from out of your prepared home, and you shall do according to all as much as the alien should have called upon you; so that all the peoples of the earth should know your name, and to fear you, as your people Israel, and to know that your name is called upon in this house which I built.
2CH 6:34 And if your people should go forth for war against its enemies, in the way which you shall send them, and they should pray to you towards the way of this city which you chose, towards it and the house which I built to your name;
2CH 6:35 then you shall hear their prayer and their supplication from out of the heaven, and you shall do them justice.
2CH 6:36 For they shall sin against you - for there is not a man who shall not sin. And if you should be enraged over them, and should deliver them before the face of the enemies, and the ones capturing shall take them captive into a land far or near;
2CH 6:37 and they should turn their heart in the land of which they were taken captive there, and shall turn, and shall beseech you in the land of their captivity, saying, We sinned, we acted lawlessly, and we acted impiously;
2CH 6:38 and they should turn towards you with all their heart, and with all their soul, in the land of their being taken captive, of which they took them captive there, and they should pray in the way of their land, which you gave to their fathers, and of the city of which you chose, and of the house of which I built to your name;
2CH 6:39 then you shall hear from the heaven, from your prepared home, of their prayer and their supplication, and shall make their case, and shall be propitious to the people sinning against you.
2CH 6:40 And now, O LORD God, let indeed your eyes be open, and your ears attentive to the supplication of this place!
2CH 6:41 And now, rise up O LORD God, in your rest, you and the ark of your strength! Your priests, O LORD God, shall clothe themselves in deliverance, and your sacred ones shall be glad in good things.
2CH 6:42 O LORD God, you should not turn the face of your anointed one. Remember the mercies of David your servant!
2CH 7:1 And as Solomon completed praying, that fire came down from out of the heaven and devoured the whole burnt offerings and the sacrifices; and the glory of the LORD filled the house.
2CH 7:2 And the priests were not able to enter into the house of the LORD at that time, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD.
2CH 7:3 And all the sons of Israel seeing the fire come down, and the glory of the LORD upon the house, that they fell upon their face upon the ground, upon the stone pavement, and did obeisance and gave praise to the LORD, saying, For he is good, for his mercy is into the eon.
2CH 7:4 And the king and all the people were sacrificing sacrifices before the LORD.
2CH 7:5 And king Solomon sacrificed the sacrifice of calves - twenty and two thousand, and pastured sheep - a hundred and twenty thousand. And the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.
2CH 7:6 And the priests were standing at their watches, and the Levites with instruments of odes of the LORD, which David the king made to acknowledge before the LORD, that his mercy is into the eon, along with the hymns of David by their hand; and the priests were trumpeting trumpets opposite them, and all Israel was standing.
2CH 7:7 And Solomon sanctified the middle of the courtyard in the house of the LORD; for he offered there the whole burnt offerings, and the fat of the deliverance offerings; for the altar of brass which Solomon made did not suffice to take the whole burnt offerings, and the gift offerings, and the fat.
2CH 7:8 And Solomon observed the holiday at that time seven days, and all Israel with him, an exceedingly great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath, and unto the rushing stream of Egypt.
2CH 7:9 And he made a holiday recess on the eighth day; he observed seven days for the dedication of the altar, and the holiday seven days.
2CH 7:10 And on the third and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent the people to their tents being glad and with a good heart over the good things which the LORD did to David, and to Solomon, and to Israel his people.
2CH 7:11 And Solomon completed the house of the LORD, and the house of the king. And all as much as Solomon wanted in his soul to do with the house of the LORD, and in his house, he was prospered.
2CH 7:12 And the LORD appeared to Solomon in the night, and said to him, I heard your prayer, and I chose in this place to myself for a house of sacrifice.
2CH 7:13 If I should hold up the heaven, and rain does not happen, and if the locust should be given charge to eat up the land, and if I send a plague among my people,
2CH 7:14 and they should have shame, (my people upon whom call upon my name by them), and should pray, and should seek my face, and should turn from their wicked ways; then I shall listen from out of the heaven, and will be propitious to their sins, and will heal their land.
2CH 7:15 And now, my eyes will be open, and my ears attentive to the prayer of this place.
2CH 7:16 And now, I chose and have sanctified this house, for my name to be there unto the eon. And my eyes and my heart will be there all the days.
2CH 7:17 And if you should go before me as David your father went, and should do according to all what I gave charge to you, and keep my orders and my judgments;
2CH 7:18 then I will raise up the throne of your kingdom as I ordained to David your father, saying, There shall not be removed to you a man ruling in Israel.
2CH 7:19 But if you should turn, and should abandon my orders, and my commandments, which I put before you, and you should go and should serve to other gods, and should do obeisance to them;
2CH 7:20 then I will remove you from the land of which I gave to you; and this house which I sanctified to my name I will disown it from my face, and will appoint it for a parable, and for a tale among all the nations.
2CH 7:21 And this house, which was exalted - everyone traveling by it shall be amazed, and shall say, For why did the LORD do thus to this land, and to this house?
2CH 7:22 And they shall say, For they abandoned the LORD God of their fathers, the one leading them from out of the land of Egypt; and they took hold of other gods, and did obeisance to them, and served to them. On account of this he brought upon them all this evil.
2CH 8:1 And it came to pass after twenty years, in which Solomon built the house of the LORD, and his house,
2CH 8:2 that the cities which Hiram gave to Solomon, Solomon built them up; and he settled there the sons of Israel.
2CH 8:3 And Solomon came into Hamath Zobah and prevailed over it.
2CH 8:4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the fortified cities which he built in Hamath.
2CH 8:5 And he built upper Beth-horon and lower Beth-horon, fortified cities with walls, gates, and bars;
2CH 8:6 and Baalath, and all the fortified cities which were unto Solomon, and all the cities of the chariots, and the cities of the horsemen, and as much as Solomon desired according to the desire to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his authority.
2CH 8:7 All the people left behind from the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, who are not of Israel
2CH 8:8 (but were of their sons being left behind after them in the land of which the sons of Israel did not utterly destroy), even them Solomon led into tribute until this day.
2CH 8:9 And Solomon did not appoint any of the sons of Israel as servants for all his works in his kingdom; for they were men warriors, and rulers, and mighty men, and rulers of his chariots, and of his horsemen.
2CH 8:10 And these rulers of the superintendents of king Solomon were fifty and two hundred directing works among the people.
2CH 8:11 And Solomon led the daughter of Pharaoh from out of the city of David into the house which he built for her. For he said, My wife shall not dwell in the city of David the king of Israel, for it is holy, because the ark of the LORD entered there.
2CH 8:12 Then Solomon offered whole burnt offerings to the LORD upon the altar of the LORD which he built before the temple,
2CH 8:13 according to the reckoning day by day, to offer according to the commandments of Moses, in the sabbaths, and in the months, and in the holidays, three times during the year - in the holiday of the unleavened breads, and in the holiday of the period of sevens, and in the holiday of the tents.
2CH 8:14 And he established, according to the ordinance of David his father, the divisions of the priests according to their ministrations, and of the Levites over their watches, to praise and to officiate before the priests, according to the reckoning - day by day; and of the gatekeepers in their divisions - for gate by gate; for thus was the commandment of David the man of God.
2CH 8:15 They did not go by without heeding the commandments of the king concerning the priests and the Levites in any matter, and in the treasures.
2CH 8:16 And all the work of Solomon was prepared from which day the house of the LORD's foundation was laid, and until of which time it was finished - until of which time Solomon finished the house of the LORD.
2CH 8:17 Then Solomon set out unto Ezion-geber, and unto Elath by the sea, in the land of Edom.
2CH 8:18 And Hiram sent by the hand of his servants boats, and servants knowing the sea. And they set out with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.
2CH 9:1 And the queen of Sheba heard the name Solomon, and she came to test him with enigmas, unto Jerusalem, with an exceedingly heavy force, and camels carrying aromatics, and gold in multitude, and valuable stone. And she came to Solomon, and spoke to him all as much as was in her soul.
2CH 9:2 And Solomon announced to her all her words; and not a word went by from Solomon which he did not report to her.
2CH 9:3 And the queen of Sheba beheld the wisdom of Solomon, and the house which he built,
2CH 9:4 and the foods of his tables, and the form of his servants, and the station of his ministers, and their garments, and his wine servers, and their uniform, and the whole burnt offerings which he offered in the house of the LORD; and there was not a breath in her any longer.
2CH 9:5 And she said to the king, The word is true which I heard in my land concerning your words, and concerning your wisdom.
2CH 9:6 And I did not trust in the words until of which I came and beheld with my eyes. And behold, the half was not reported to me of the magnitude of your wisdom, being added over the hearing which I heard.
2CH 9:7 Blessed are your men, blessed are these your servants standing beside you always and hearing your wisdom.
2CH 9:8 May the LORD your God be for a blessing, who wanted by you to put you upon his throne for a king to your God; in that the LORD your God loved Israel, to establish it into the eon, and he put you over them as king, to execute equity and righteousness.
2CH 9:9 And she gave to the king a hundred twenty talents of gold, and aromatics in very great multitude, and valuable stone. And there was not any according to those aromatics which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
2CH 9:10 And the servants of Hiram, and the servants of Solomon, brought gold to Solomon from out of Ophir, and wood of pines, and valuable stone.
2CH 9:11 And the king made ascents from the wood of pines for the house of the LORD, and for the house of the king, and harps and stringed instruments for the singers; and there was not seen such as these before in the land of Judah.
2CH 9:12 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her wants, which she asked for, outside of all what she brought to king Solomon. And she returned unto her land.
2CH 9:13 And was the weight of the gold being brought to Solomon in one year - six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,
2CH 9:14 besides what the men arranging and trading brought. And all the kings of Arabia and satraps of the land brought gold and silver to king Solomon.
2CH 9:15 And king Solomon made two hundred shields of hammered out gold - six hundred weights of pure gold being used upon the one shield.
2CH 9:16 And three hundred shields of hammered out gold of three hundred weights of gold bore upon each shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
2CH 9:17 And the king made a great ivory throne of tusks, and gilded it in unadulterated gold.
2CH 9:18 And there were six stairs to the throne being bonded with gold; and he placed a footstool in gold under the throne; and armrest angles on this side and on that side were upon the chair of the throne, and two lions were standing by the armrest angles.
2CH 9:19 And twelve lions were standing there upon the six stairs on this side and on that side - there was not such in any kingdom.
2CH 9:20 And all the items of king Solomon were of gold, and all the items of the house of the forest of Lebanon were overtaken covered with gold. - silver was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
2CH 9:21 For ships belonging to the king went to Tarshish with the servants of Hiram. Once in three years boats came from Tarshish to the king being full of gold, and silver, and tusks of ivory, and apes.
2CH 9:22 And Solomon was magnified above all the kings of the earth, even in riches and wisdom.
2CH 9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the face of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, of which God put in his heart.
2CH 9:24 And they brought each one his gifts - items made of silver, and items of gold, and clothes, weapons, balsam, and spices, horses, and mules, accordingly year by year.
2CH 9:25 And there were to Solomon four thousand female horses for chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. And he stationed them in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem.
2CH 9:26 And he was leader of all the kings from the river and unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt.
2CH 9:27 And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and made the cedars as the sycamine trees in the plain in multitude.
2CH 9:28 And the delivery of the horses from out of Egypt to Solomon even was from all the lands.
2CH 9:29 And the rest of the words of Solomon, the first and the last, behold are not these written by the words of Nathan the prophet, and by the words of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?
2CH 9:30 And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
2CH 9:31 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 10:1 And Rehoboam came unto Shechem, for unto Shechem came all Israel to give reign to him.
2CH 10:2 And it came to pass, when Jeroboam son of Nebat heard (and he was in Egypt, as he fled from the face of Solomon the king, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt,) that Jeroboam returned from out of Egypt.
2CH 10:3 And they sent and called him. And Jeroboam came, and all the assembly of Israel and spoke to Rehoboam, saying,
2CH 10:4 Your father hardened our yoke; and now, you lighten from the hard servitude of your father, and from his heavy yoke which he put upon us, and we will serve to you!
2CH 10:5 And he said to them, Go until three days, and then come to me! And the people went forth.
2CH 10:6 And king Rehoboam brought together the elders standing before Solomon his father during his life, saying, How do you counsel to answer a word to this people?
2CH 10:7 And they spoke to him, saying, If today you should be for good to this people, and you should please them, and should speak to them good words, then they will be to you for servants all the days.
2CH 10:8 And he forsook the counsel of the elders advising to him, and was advised by the young men being brought up with him standing before him.
2CH 10:9 And he said to them, What word do you counsel that I shall answer to this people who spoke to me, saying, Spare us from the yoke of which your father put upon us?
2CH 10:10 And the young men having been brought up with him said to him, saying, Thus shall you speak to the people speaking to you, saying, Your father oppressed our yoke, and you now lighten from our yoke! Thus you shall say to them, My small finger is thicker than the loin of my father.
2CH 10:11 And now my father inserted to you a heavy yoke, but I will add upon your yoke. My father corrected you with whips, but I will correct you with scorpions.
2CH 10:12 And Jeroboam came and all the people to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king said, saying, Return to me on the third day!
2CH 10:13 And the king answered them hard; and king abandoned Rehoboam the counsel of the elders.
2CH 10:14 And he spoke to them according to the counsel of the younger men, saying, My father oppressed your yoke, and I will add upon it. My father corrected you with whips, and I will correct you with scorpions.
2CH 10:15 And the king hearkened not to the people. For it was a conversion from God, that the LORD should establish his word, which he spoke by the hand of Ahijah the Shilonite concerning Jeroboam son of Nebat.
2CH 10:16 And all Israel saw that the king hearkened not to them. And the people answered to the king, saying, What is our portion with David, and the inheritance with the son of Jesse? Run to your tents, O Israel! Now look to your own house, David! And all Israel went to its tents.
2CH 10:17 And as far as the men of Israel dwelling in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
2CH 10:18 And Rehoboam the king sent Hadoram, the one over the tribute. And the sons of Israel stoned him with stones, and he died. And king Rehoboam hastened to ascend into the chariot to flee unto Jerusalem.
2CH 10:19 And Israel annulled allegiance to the house of David until this day.
2CH 11:1 And Rehoboam came into Jerusalem, and held an assembly of Judah and Benjamin - a hundred eighty thousand young men for making war, to wage war against Israel, to return the kingdom to Rehoboam.
2CH 11:2 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
2CH 11:3 Say to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel with Judah and Benjamin, saying!
2CH 11:4 Thus says the LORD, You shall not ascend, and you shall not wage war against your brothers. Let each return to his house! for this thing took place from me. And they heeded the word of the LORD, and turned to not go against Jeroboam.
2CH 11:5 And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built walled cities in Judea.
2CH 11:6 And he rebuilt Beth-lehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,
2CH 11:7 and Beth-zur, and Shoco, and Adullam,
2CH 11:8 and Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,
2CH 11:9 and Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,
2CH 11:10 and Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which are walled cities of Judah and Benjamin.
2CH 11:11 And he fortified them with walls, and appointed leaders in them, and provisions of foods, and olive oil, and wine;
2CH 11:12 accordingly city by city with shields and spears, and strengthened them in magnitude exceedingly; and Judah and Benjamin were his.
2CH 11:13 And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel came together to him from out of all the borders.
2CH 11:14 For the Levites left behind their tents, the ones of their possession, and went to Judah unto Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons cast them out to not officiate to the LORD.
2CH 11:15 And he placed for himself priests of the high places, and for the idols, and for the vain things, and for the calves which Jeroboam made.
2CH 11:16 And he cast them out from the tribes of Israel, the ones who gave their heart to seek the LORD God of Israel. And they came into Jerusalem to sacrifice to the LORD God of their fathers.
2CH 11:17 And they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and strengthened Rehoboam son of Solomon for three years, for he went by way of David and Solomon for three years.
2CH 11:18 And Rehoboam took to himself for a wife Mahalath daughter of Jerimoth son of David, and Abihail daughter of Eliab son of Jesse.
2CH 11:19 And she bore to him sons - Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.
2CH 11:20 And after these he took Maachah to himself, the daughter of Absalom; and she bore to him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
2CH 11:21 And Rehoboam loved Maacha daughter of Absalom above all his wives and the concubines; for he had eighteen wives, and sixty concubines, and engendered twenty and eight sons, and sixty daughters.
2CH 11:22 And Rehoboam ordained Abijah the son of Maacha as ruler, and for leader among his brothers, for he considered to give him reign.
2CH 11:23 And he grew - Abijah cut through. above all his sons, in all the borders of Judah and Benjamin, and in the fortified cities; and he gave to them a vast multitude of provisions. And he asked for a multitude of wives.
2CH 12:1 And it came to pass as the kingdom of Rehoboam was prepared, and as he was secure, he abandoned the law of the LORD, and all Israel with him.
2CH 12:2 And it came to pass in the fifth year of the kingdom of Rehoboam Shishak king of Egypt ascended up against Jerusalem, (for they sinned before the LORD),
2CH 12:3 with a thousand and two hundred chariots, and sixty thousand horsemen. And there was not a count of the multitude coming with him out of Egypt - Lubims, Sukkiims, and Ethiopians.
2CH 12:4 And they secured the fortified cities which were in Judah, and came to Jerusalem.
2CH 12:5 And Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam, and to the rulers of Judah gathering together in Jerusalem from the face of Shishak, and said to them, Thus said the LORD, You abandoned me, and I shall abandon you into the hand of Shishak.
2CH 12:6 And the rulers of Israel and the king were shamed, and they said, the LORD is just.
2CH 12:7 And when the LORD saw that they were ashamed, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They felt shame, I shall not utterly ruin them, but I will appoint them as small for deliverance; and in no way shall my rage be dripped over Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak,
2CH 12:8 for they will be to him for servants, and they shall know my servitude, and the servitude of the kingdom of the land.
2CH 12:9 And Shishak king of Egypt ascended against Jerusalem, and took the treasures in the house of the LORD, and the treasures in the house of the king - he took all. And he took the shields of gold which Solomon made.
2CH 12:10 And king Rehoboam made shields of brass instead of them, and placed them unto the hands of the rulers being bodyguards, guarding the gatehouse of the king.
2CH 12:11 And it came to pass when it was fit in the entering by the king into the house of the LORD, the bodyguards went in also and took the shields; and then they restored them unto the place of the bodyguards.
2CH 12:12 And in his feeling ashamed, the anger of the LORD was turned from him, and not unto corruption unto the end; for even in Judah there were good matters.
2CH 12:13 And king Rehoboam grew strong in Jerusalem, and reigned. Rehoboam was a son of forty and one years old in his taking reign. And seventeen years he reigned in Jerusalem, in the city which the LORD chose to name his name there from out of all the tribes of the sons of Israel. And the name to his mother was Naammah the Ammonitess.
2CH 12:14 And he acted wickedly, for he did not straighten out his heart to seek after the LORD.
2CH 12:15 And the words of Rehoboam, the first and last, behold are they not written in the words of Shemaiah the prophet, and Iddo the seer to trace descent and his actions? And Rehoboam and Jeroboam waged war all the days.
2CH 12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was entombed in the city of David. And Abijah his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 13:1 In the eighteenth year of the kingdom of Jeroboam, Abijah took reign over Judah.
2CH 13:2 Three years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Michaiah daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and between Jeroboam.
2CH 13:3 And Abijah deployed for the war with a force of warriors of power - four hundred thousand chosen men. And Jeroboam deployed against him for war with eight hundred thousand chosen men, mighty warriors of power.
2CH 13:4 And Abijah rose up from mount Zemaraim, which is in mount Ephraim, and said, Hear me, Jeroboam, and all Israel!
2CH 13:5 Is it not to you to know that the LORD God of Israel appointed the kingdom to David over Israel into the eon, and to his sons for a covenant of salt?
2CH 13:6 And Jeroboam son of Nebat rose up, the servant of Solomon son of David, and revolted from his master.
2CH 13:7 And there gathered together with him mischievous men, sons of lawbreakers, and they grew in strength against Rehoboam son of Solomon. And Rehoboam was younger and timid in the heart, and he did not fortify against their face.
2CH 13:8 And now you speak to oppose against the face of the kingdom of the LORD in the hand of the sons of David, and you are a vast multitude, and with you calves of gold which Jeroboam made for you as gods.
2CH 13:9 Or did you not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and made to yourselves priests from the people of the land? Even every one approaching filling his hand with a calf, an offspring of the herd, and seven rams, then he becomes as a priest to the one not being God.
2CH 13:10 And we did not abandon the LORD our God. And his priests officiate to the LORD, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites in their daily rotations.
2CH 13:11 And they burn to the LORD whole burnt offerings in the morning by morning, and evening by evening; and they have the incense composition, and place settings of breads upon the pure table, and the gold lamp-stand, and its lamps, to light evening by evening; for we guard the watch of the LORD, the God of our fathers, but you abandoned him.
2CH 13:12 And behold, with us as head is the LORD, and his priests, and the signal trumpets to signify against you. Sons of Israel, you should not wage war against the LORD God of your fathers, for your ways shall not be prospered.
2CH 13:13 And Jeroboam circled an ambush to come from behind them. And they were in front of Judah, and the ambush was from the places behind.
2CH 13:14 And Judah turned, and behold, the battle was against them from the places in front and from the places posterior. And they yelled to the LORD, and the priests trumped the trumpets.
2CH 13:15 And the men of Judah shouted. And it happened when the men of Judah shouted, that the LORD struck Jeroboam and Israel before Abijah and Judah.
2CH 13:16 And the sons of Israel fled from the face of Judah, and the LORD delivered them into their hands.
2CH 13:17 And Abijah and his people struck them with a great calamity. And there fell slain of Israel - five hundred thousand mighty men.
2CH 13:18 And the sons of Israel were abased in that day, and the sons of Judah grew strong, for they hoped upon the LORD God of their fathers.
2CH 13:19 And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and first took from him the cities of Beth-el and her towns, and Jeshanah and her towns, and Ephrain and her towns.
2CH 13:20 And Jeroboam did not have strength any more during all the days of Abijah. And the LORD struck him, and he died.
2CH 13:21 And Abijah grew strong, and took for himself fourteen wives, and engendered twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.
2CH 13:22 And the rest of the words of Abijah, and his actions, and his words are written upon the scroll in the inquiry of Iddo the prophet.
2CH 14:1 And Abijah slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the city of David. And Asa his son took reign instead of him. In the days of Asa the land of Judah was quiet ten years.
2CH 14:2 And he did the good and the upright thing before the LORD his God.
2CH 14:3 And he removed the altars of the aliens, and the high places, and broke the monuments, and cut down the sacred groves.
2CH 14:4 And he spoke to Judah to seek after the LORD God of their fathers, and to observe the law and the commandments.
2CH 14:5 And he removed from all of the cities of Judah the altars and the idols. And the kingdom was at peace before him.
2CH 14:6 And he built walled cities in the land of Judah, for there was peace in the land; and there was not war to him in these years, for the LORD gave rest to him.
2CH 14:7 And he said to Judah, We should build these cities, and we should make walls, and towers, and gates, and bars, in which land we dominate, for as we sought the LORD our God, he sought us, and rested us round about. And they built and prospered.
2CH 14:8 And there was to Asa a force of armor-bearers lifting shields and spears in Judah - three hundred thousand. And in Benjamin men armed with small shields, and bowmen - two hundred and eighty thousand - all these were warriors of power.
2CH 14:9 And Zerah the Ethiopian came forth against them in a force with a thousand thousand, and with three hundred chariots, and came unto Mareshah.
2CH 14:10 And Asa came forth to meet against him, and deployed for war in the ravine to the north of Mareshah.
2CH 14:11 And Asa yelled to the LORD his God, and said, O LORD, it is not impossible for you to deliver by many or by few. Help us, O LORD our God, for upon you we yield, and in your name we came against this vast multitude. O LORD our God, you are God. Let not man prevail against you!
2CH 14:12 And the LORD struck the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah; and the Ethiopians fled.
2CH 14:13 And Asa pursued them and his people unto Gerar. And the Ethiopians fell so as to not be in procurement of safety for themselves, for they were defeated before the LORD, and before his force. And they despoiled many spoils.
2CH 14:14 And they knocked down their towns round about Gerar, for there became a change of state of the LORD upon them. And they plundered all their cities, for many spoils came to them.
2CH 14:15 And indeed the tents of the cattle they cut down, and took many sheep and camels, and returned to Jerusalem.
2CH 15:1 And Azariah son of Oded - spirit of God came upon him.
2CH 15:2 And he went forth for meeting with Asa, and said to him, Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin! The LORD is with you in your being with him. And if you seek after him, he shall be found by you; and if you should abandon him, he will abandon you.
2CH 15:3 For many days passed to Israel without the true God, and not a priest to plainly show things, and with not a law.
2CH 15:4 And he shall turn them in affliction unto the LORD God of Israel, and they shall seek him, and he shall be found by them.
2CH 15:5 And in those times there is not peace to the one going forth, and to the one entering, for much astonishment was upon all the dwelling places.
2CH 15:6 And nation shall wage war against nation, and city against city, for God startled them in every affliction.
2CH 15:7 And you be strong, and do not loosen your hands! for there is a wage for your work.
2CH 15:8 And in Asa hearing of these words, and the prophecy of Oded the prophet, that he prevailed, and cast out the loathsome things of all the land of Judah and Benjamin, and from the cities which he took control of from Jeroboam, from the mountains of Ephraim, and he dedicated the altar of the LORD which was in front of the temple of the LORD.
2CH 15:9 And he assembled Judah and Benjamin, and the foreigners sojourning with him from Ephraim, and from Manasseh, and from Simeon; for many from out of Israel were added to him in their seeing that the LORD God himself was with him.
2CH 15:10 And they gathered in Jerusalem in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the kingdom of Asa.
2CH 15:11 And they sacrificed to the LORD in that day from the spoils which they brought - seven hundred calves and seven thousand sheep.
2CH 15:12 And they went into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their fathers with their entire heart and with their entire soul.
2CH 15:13 And all who ever did not seek after the LORD God of Israel shall die, from younger unto older, from man unto woman.
2CH 15:14 And they swore by an oath to the LORD with a great voice, and with shouting, and with trumpets, and with horns.
2CH 15:15 And all Judah was glad on account of the oath, for from their entire soul they swore by an oath, and with all their volition they sought him; and he was found by them. And the LORD gave rest to them round about.
2CH 15:16 And Asa removed Maachah the mother of the king to not be officiating to Ashtoreth. And he cut in pieces the idol, and incinerated it at the rushing stream Kidron.
2CH 15:17 Except the high places were not removed, for they existed in Israel. Only the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.
2CH 15:18 And he carried in the holy things of his father, and his own holy things into the house of God - silver, and gold, and vessels.
2CH 15:19 And war was not with him until the thirtieth and fifth year of the kingdom of Asa.
2CH 16:1 And in the thirtieth and eighth year of the kingdom of Asa, Baasha king of Israel ascended against Judah and built Ramah, to not give an exit nor entrance to Asa king of Judah.
2CH 16:2 And Asa took silver and gold from out of the treasuries of the house of the LORD, and from the house of the king, and sent to the son of Hadad king of Syria, the one dwelling in Damascus, saying,
2CH 16:3 Ordain a covenant between me and between you, and between my father and between your father! Behold, I have sent to you gold and silver. Come, and efface your covenant with Baasha king of Israel, and he shall go forth from me!
2CH 16:4 And the son of Hadad hearkened to king Asa, and sent the rulers of his force against the cities of Israel. And he struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-maim, and all the places round about Naphtali.
2CH 16:5 And it happened when Baasha heard, that he left off to no longer build Ramah, and rested his work.
2CH 16:6 And king Asa took all Judah to lift away all the stones of Ramah, and its timbers, which Baasha built with; and he built with them Geba and Mizpah.
2CH 16:7 And in that time Hanani the prophet came to Asa king of Judah, and said to him, Because you relied upon the king of Syria, and you did not rely upon the LORD your God, on account of this the force of the king of Syria came through safe from your hand.
2CH 16:8 Were not the Ethiopians and Lubim a vast force, and of courage for chariots and horsemen in multitude, exceedingly? And in your relying upon the LORD, he delivered them into your hands.
2CH 16:9 For the eyes of the LORD look in all the earth to strengthen with every heart perfect towards him. You have known about this; from now on war will be with you.
2CH 16:10 And Asa was enraged with the prophet, and placed him in the house of the prison, for he was angry over this. And Asa laid waste among the people at that time.
2CH 16:11 And behold, the words of Asa, the first and the last, are written upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2CH 16:12 And Asa was infirm in the thirtieth and ninth year of his kingdom in his feet, until his infirmity was higher severe.. And in his infirmity he did not seek the LORD, but the physicians.
2CH 16:13 And Asa slept with his fathers, and came to an end in the fortieth and first year of his kingdom.
2CH 16:14 And they entombed him in the tomb in which he dug for himself in the city of David. And they rested him upon the bed, and filled it of aromatics, and types of scented perfumes. And they made for him a great funeral, and kindled him a great burning - unto exceedingly.
2CH 17:1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned instead of him. And Jehoshaphat strengthened against Israel.
2CH 17:2 And he put a force in all the fortified cities of Judah, and put leaders in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim which Asa his father first took.
2CH 17:3 And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, for he went in the first ways of David his father; and did not seek after the idols.
2CH 17:4 But he sought after the LORD God of his father, and by his commandments he went, and not according to the works of Israel.
2CH 17:5 And the LORD straightened the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat; and there became to him much riches and glory.
2CH 17:6 And his heart was raised up high in the ways of the LORD. And again he removed the high places and the sacred groves from the land of Judah.
2CH 17:7 And in the third year of his kingship he sent his leaders, and the sons of the mighty ones - Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethaneel, and Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.
2CH 17:8 And with them the Levites - Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.
2CH 17:9 And they taught in Judah, and with them was the book of the law of the LORD. And they went through in the cities of Judah, and taught the people.
2CH 17:10 And there came to pass a change of state of the LORD upon all the kingdoms of the land round about Judah, and they did not wage war against Jehoshaphat.
2CH 17:11 And from the Philistines they brought to Jehoshaphat gifts and silver; and also the Arabians brought to him rams of the flocks - seven thousand seven hundred; he-goats - seven thousand seven hundred.
2CH 17:12 And Jehoshaphat was going greater unto height; and he built places of abode in Judah, and fortified cities.
2CH 17:13 And many works were taking place by him in Judah. And mighty men warriors being strong were in Jerusalem.
2CH 17:14 And this is the number of them according to the houses of their families. And to Judah the commanders of thousands - Adnah the ruler, and with him mighty sons of power - three hundred thousand.
2CH 17:15 And after him Johahnan the ruler, and with him two hundred eighty thousand.
2CH 17:16 And after him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, the one feeling eager to the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of power.
2CH 17:17 And from Benjamin the mighty man of power Eliada, and with him bowmen and men armed with small shields - two hundred thousand.
2CH 17:18 And with him was Jehozabad, and with him a hundred eighty thousand mighty men of war.
2CH 17:19 These were the ones officiating to the king, outside of the ones whom the king put in the fortified cities in all Judea.
2CH 18:1 And there came to Jehoshaphat still much riches and glory. And he was allied by marriage with the house of Ahab.
2CH 18:2 And he went down at the end of years to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab sacrificed to him sheep and calves in abundance, and to the people with him, and persuaded him to go up with him unto Ramoth Gilead.
2CH 18:3 And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Will you go with me to Ramoth of Gilead? And he said to him, As you, so also I, and as your people, also my people; even with you for war.
2CH 18:4 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Let us seek indeed today the word of the LORD!
2CH 18:5 And the king of Israel gathered the prophets - four hundred men. And he said to them, Shall I go to Ramoth Gilead for war, or should I wait? And they said, Ascend, and God shall give them into the hands of the king!
2CH 18:6 And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD yet, that we shall seek anxiously by him?
2CH 18:7 And the the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is one man to seek the LORD through him - and I detest him; for he is not prophesying for good things concerning me, for all his days are for bad things. He is Michaiah son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king speak thus!
2CH 18:8 And the king of Israel called one eunuch, and said, Quickly call Michaiah son of Imla!
2CH 18:9 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah were sitting each upon his throne, being clothed with robes, and they sat down in the broad space at the door of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
2CH 18:10 And Zedekiah son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron, and he said, Thus says the LORD, With these you shall gore the Syrian until whenever he should be finished off entirely.
2CH 18:11 And all the prophets prophesied thus, saying, Ascend unto Ramoth Gilead! and you shall prosper in the way, and the LORD will give it into the hands of the king.
2CH 18:12 And the messenger going to call Michaiah spoke to him, saying, Behold, the prophets spoke good things with one mouth concerning the king; and let your words indeed be as one of them, and you shall speak good things!
2CH 18:13 And Michaiah said, As the LORD lives, that what ever God should say to me, it I shall speak.
2CH 18:14 And he came to the king. And the king said to him, Michaiah, Shall I go to Ramoth Gilead for war, or should I wait? And he said, Ascend! And your way shall prosper, and they shall be given into your hands.
2CH 18:15 And the king said to him, How often shall I bind you by an oath that you should not speak to me except the truth in the name of the LORD?
2CH 18:16 And Michaiah said, I see Israel all being scattered in the mountains as sheep in which there is not a shepherd. And the LORD said, These have not a leader; let them each return to his house in peace.
2CH 18:17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Said I not to you that he would not prophesy for my good, but only bad?
2CH 18:18 And Michaiah said, It is not so. Hear the word of the LORD! I beheld the LORD sitting upon his throne, and all the force of the heaven stood beside at his right and at his left.
2CH 18:19 And the LORD said, Who shall deceive Ahab king of Israel, that he shall ascend and shall fall in Ramoth Gilead? And this one spoke thus, and this other one spoke thus.
2CH 18:20 And came forth the spirit, and stood in the presence of the LORD, and said, I shall deceive him. And the LORD said, By what means?
2CH 18:21 And he said, I shall go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, You shall deceive, and shall prevail. Go forth, and do so!
2CH 18:22 And now, behold, the LORD put a lying spirit in the mouths of all these your prophets, and the LORD spoke against you for bad things.
2CH 18:23 And Zedekiah son of Chenaanah approached and struck Michaiah upon the jaw, and said to him, By what way passed the spirit of the LORD from me to speak to you?
2CH 18:24 And Michaiah said, Behold, you shall see in that day in which you shall enter closet by closet to hide.
2CH 18:25 And the king of Israel said, Take Michaiah and return him to Amon the ruler of the city, and to Joash the son of the king.
2CH 18:26 And you shall say, Thus said the king, Put this one into a prison house, and let him eat bread of affliction and water of affliction until my returning in peace!
2CH 18:27 And Michaiah said, If by returning you should return in peace, the LORD spoke not by me. And he said, Hearken all peoples!
2CH 18:28 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah ascended to Ramoth Gilead.
2CH 18:29 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I shall cover up and enter into the battle; but you put on my clothes! And the king of Israel covered up, and entered into the battle.
2CH 18:30 And the king of Syria gave charge to the heads of the chariots with him, saying, Do not wage war with the small and the great, but the king of Israel only.
2CH 18:31 And it came to pass, as the ones in charge of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. And they encircled him to do battle. And Jehoshaphat yelled, and the LORD delivered him; and God turned them from him.
2CH 18:32 And it came to pass, as the ones in charge of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned from him.
2CH 18:33 And a man stretched tight a bow skillfully, and he struck the king of Israel between the lungs and between the chest plate. And he said to the charioteer, Turn your hand, and lead me from the battle! for I am wounded.
2CH 18:34 And the battle turned in that day. And the king of Israel was set upon the chariot right opposite Syria until evening; and he died in the going down of the sun.
2CH 19:1 And Jehoshaphat king of Judah returned to his house in peace into Jerusalem.
2CH 19:2 And came forth to meet him Jehu the son of Hanani the prophet. And he said to king Jehoshaphat, Shall you help a sinner, or do you befriend one being detested by the LORD? Because of this the anger of the LORD took place against you.
2CH 19:3 But good words were found in you, for you removed the sacred groves from the land of Judah, and straightened out your heart to seek after the LORD.
2CH 19:4 And Jehoshaphat dwelt in Jerusalem. And again he went forth to the people from Beer-sheba unto mount Ephraim, and turned them unto the LORD the God of their fathers.
2CH 19:5 And he placed judges in all the cities of Judah, the fortified ones, in city by city.
2CH 19:6 And he said to the judges, Know what you do! for not unto man do you judge, but to the LORD, and with you are the words of judgment.
2CH 19:7 And now, let the fear of the LORD be upon you, and guard and act! For injustice is not with the LORD our God, nor admiring a face, nor taking bribes.
2CH 19:8 And indeed in Jerusalem Jehoshaphat placed from out of the Levites, and of the priests, and of the patriarchs of Israel, for the judgment of the LORD, and to judge the ones dwelling in Jerusalem.
2CH 19:9 And he gave charge to them, saying, Thus you shall do in the fear of the LORD, in truth and with a full heart.
2CH 19:10 Every man with a judgment coming unto you of your brothers dwelling in their cities, whether between blood for blood, and between the order and commandment, and for ordinances and judgments, that you shall warn them, that they shall not sin against the LORD, that there will not be anger against you, and against your brothers - thus you shall do, and you shall not sin.
2CH 19:11 And behold, Amariah the leading priest over you is for every matter of the LORD; and Zebadiah son of Ishmael is the leader in the house of Judah for every word of the king. And the scribes, the Levites, are before you. Be strong and act, and the LORD will be with the good!
2CH 20:1 And after these things came the sons of Moab, and the sons of Ammon, and with them ones from out of the Ammonites, against Jehoshaphat for war.
2CH 20:2 And they came and reported to Jehoshaphat, saying, A vast multitude comes against you from the other side of the sea, from Syria; and behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar - this is En-gedi.
2CH 20:3 And Jehoshaphat feared, and put his face to seek after the LORD, and proclaimed a fast in all Judah.
2CH 20:4 And Judah gathered to seek after the LORD; and they came from out of all the cities of Judah to seek the LORD.
2CH 20:5 And Jehoshaphat rose up in the assembly of Judah in Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD, in front of the new courtyard.
2CH 20:6 And he said, O LORD God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? And do you not dominate all the kingdoms of the nations? And is not in your hand strength and dominion, and there is not one to oppose against you?
2CH 20:7 Are you not our God, the one utterly destroying the ones dwelling this land from in front of your people Israel, and gave it to the seed of Abraham, to your friend into the eon?
2CH 20:8 And they dwell in it, and built to you in it a sanctuary to your name, saying,
2CH 20:9 If evils should come against us - the broadsword, judgment, plague, famine, we will stand before this house, and before you, (for your name is called upon in this house,) and we will yell to you from our affliction, and you shall hear and shall deliver.
2CH 20:10 And now, behold, the sons of Ammon, and Moab, and mount Seir, in which you did not grant to Israel to go through them, in their coming forth from out of the land of Egypt, for they turned aside from them and did not utterly destroy them -
2CH 20:11 and behold, they make an attempt against us, to come and to cast us from our inheritance, of which you have given to us.
2CH 20:12 O LORD our God, will you not judge by them? For there is not to us strength to oppose against this vast multitude coming against us. And we do not know what we should do, but our eyes are unto you.
2CH 20:13 And all Judah stood before the LORD, and their children, and their wives, and their sons.
2CH 20:14 And Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, son of Benaiah, son of Jeiel, son of Mattaniah the Levite of the sons of Asaph - came upon him spirit of the LORD in the assembly.
2CH 20:15 And he said, Hearken all Judah, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, and king Jehoshaphat! Thus says the LORD to you, Do not fear nor be terrified from the face of this vast multitude! For the battle array is not to you, but to God.
2CH 20:16 Tomorrow go down against them! Behold, they ascend according to the ascent of Ziz; and you shall find them at the tip of the river of the wilderness of Jeruel.
2CH 20:17 It is not for you to wage war in this. Stand, and perceive, and see the deliverance of the LORD with you, O Judah and Jerusalem! Do not fear, nor be terrified tomorrow to go forth for meeting them! even the LORD is with you.
2CH 20:18 And Jehoshaphat bowed upon his face upon the earth; and all Judah and the ones dwelling Jerusalem fell before the LORD, to do obeisance to the LORD.
2CH 20:19 And the Levites rose up from the sons of Kohath, and from the sons of the Korhites, to give praise to the LORD God of Israel with a great voice unto the height.
2CH 20:20 And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa. But in their going forth, Jehoshaphat stood and yelled, and said, Hear me, O Judah, and O ones dwelling in Jerusalem! Entrust in the LORD your God, and you will be entrusted! Entrust in his prophet, and your way will be prosperous!
2CH 20:21 And being advised with the people, and he stationed psalm singers and ones praising the LORD, to acknowledge and to praise in the holy, in the going forth before the force. And they said, Give acknowledgment to the LORD! for into the eon is his mercy.
2CH 20:22 And when they began the praise and the acknowledgment, the LORD appointed an ambush for the sons of Ammon to wage war against Moab and mount Seir, of the ones coming forth against Judah - and they put them to flight.
2CH 20:23 And the sons of Ammon and Moab rose up against the ones dwelling mount Seir, to utterly destroy and to obliterate them. And as they finished off the ones dwelling in Seir, they rose up against one another, and a man took his neighbor for hurt.
2CH 20:24 And Judah came upon the height in the wilderness, and looked. And they beheld the multitude, and behold, all were dead having fallen upon the ground - there was not one surviving.
2CH 20:25 And Jehoshaphat came forth, and his people, to despoil their spoils. And they found much cattle, and belongings, and spoils, and desirable items. And they despoiled for themselves. And they were three days plundering the spoils, for there was much.
2CH 20:26 And on the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of the Blessing; for there they blessed the LORD. On account of this they call the name of that place, Valley of Blessing, until this day.
2CH 20:27 And every man of Judah returned to Jerusalem. And Jehoshaphat leading them returned to Jerusalem in great gladness; for the LORD gladdened them from their enemies.
2CH 20:28 And they entered into Jerusalem with stringed instruments, and lutes, and with trumpets, into the house of the LORD.
2CH 20:29 And came to pass a change of state of the LORD upon all the kingdoms of the earth, in their hearing that the LORD waged war against the ones being opponents of Israel.
2CH 20:30 And the kingdom of Jehoshaphat had peace, and his God rested him round about.
2CH 20:31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah, being thirty-five years old in his taking reign, and twenty and five years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Azubah daughter of Shilhi.
2CH 20:32 And he went in the ways of Asa his father. And he did not turn aside from them to do the upright before the LORD.
2CH 20:33 Only the high places he did not remove; and still the people did not straighten out their heart to the LORD God of their fathers.
2CH 20:34 And the rest of the words of Jehoshaphat, the first and the last, behold, they are written in the words of Jehu the son of Hanani, which he wrote down upon a scroll of the kings of Israel.
2CH 20:35 And after these things, Jehoshaphat king of Judah participated with Ahaziah king of Israel, and he acted lawlessly to do.
2CH 20:36 And he participated with him to make boats even to go to Tarshish. And he made boats in Ezion Geber.
2CH 20:37 And Eliezer the son of Dodavah from Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, As you participated with Ahaziah, the LORD cut through your works. And your boats were broken, and they were not able to go into Tarshish.
2CH 21:1 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was entombed with his fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 21:2 And to him were brothers, sons of Jehoshaphat - Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah; all these were sons of Jehoshaphat king of Judah.
2CH 21:3 And their father gave to them many gifts - silver, and gold, and shields, with cities being walled in Judah. But the kingdom he gave to Jehoram, for he was the first-born.
2CH 21:4 And Jehoram rose over the kingdom of his father, and was strengthened, and killed all his brothers by the broadsword, and indeed some of the rulers of Israel.
2CH 21:5 His being thirty and two years old was Jehoram in his reigning, and eight years he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 21:6 And he went in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for a daughter of Ahab was to him for a wife. And he did the wicked thing before the LORD.
2CH 21:7 And the LORD wanted not to utterly destroy the house of David on account of the covenant which he ordained with David, and as he said to him, to give him a lamp and to his sons all the days.
2CH 21:8 In those days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and they gave a king reign over themselves.
2CH 21:9 And Jehoram set out with his rulers, and all his chariots, and all the cavalry with him. And it came to pass that he arose by night and struck Edom, the one encircling him, and the rulers of the chariots.
2CH 21:10 And Edom revolted from the hand of Judah until this day. Then Libnah revolted in that time from under his hand, for he abandoned the LORD God of his fathers.
2CH 21:11 Moreover he made the high places in the cities of Judah, and fornicated the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, and led Judah astray.
2CH 21:12 And there came to him in writing words by Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father, Because you went not in the way of Jehoshaphat your father, and in the ways of Asa king of Judah,
2CH 21:13 and went in the ways of the king of Israel, and fornicated Judah, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, as the house of Ahab fornicated, and also you killed your brothers sons of your father being good ones over you;
2CH 21:14 behold, the LORD shall strike you with a great calamity among your people, and among your sons, and among your wives, and among all your belongings;
2CH 21:15 and you shall be in severe sicknesses in disease of your belly, until of which your innards should come forth from the sickness from days unto days.
2CH 21:16 And the LORD roused the Philistines against Jehoram, and the Arabians, and the ones adjoining the Ethiopians.
2CH 21:17 And they ascended against Judah, and overpowered it, and captured all the possessions which they found in the house of the king, and the houses of his sons, and his daughters; and there was not left to him a son, except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons.
2CH 21:18 And after all these things the LORD struck him in his belly with a sickness in which there is not a healing.
2CH 21:19 And it happened from days unto days, and as his time came in two days, there came forth his innards with his belly in his sickness. And he died in severe sicknesses, and his people did not make a funeral to him, nor a burning according to the burning of his fathers.
2CH 21:20 He was thirty and two years old in his reigning, and eight years he reigned in Jerusalem. And he went in not high praise. And they entombed him in the city of David, and not in the tombs of the kings.
2CH 22:1 And the ones dwelling in Jerusalem gave reign to Ahaziah his son, the youngest, instead of him, for all the elder sons were killed by the ones coming upon them - the band of robbers, the Arabians. And Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned.
2CH 22:2 Ahaziah was a son being forty and two years old in his reigning, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Athaliah daughter of Omri.
2CH 22:3 And also he went in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor to sin.
2CH 22:4 And he did the wicked thing in the eyes of the LORD, as the house of Ahab; for they were to him counselors after the dying of his father, to utterly destroy him.
2CH 22:5 And he went by their counsels. and went with Jehoram son of Ahab king of Israel for war against Hazael king of Syria in Ramoth Gilead. And the bowmen struck Jehoram.
2CH 22:6 And Jehoram returned to be treated medically in Jezreel from the wounds which the Syrians struck him in Ramoth, in his warring against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah son of Jehoram, king of Judah, went down to see Jehoram son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he was infirm.
2CH 22:7 And by God came the final event of Ahaziah in his coming to Jehoram. And in his coming, Jehoram went forth with him against Jehu son of Nimshi, the anointed of the LORD, whom the LORD anointed him to utterly destroy the house of Ahab.
2CH 22:8 And it came to pass in Jehu taking vengeance on the house of Ahab, that he found the rulers of Judah, and the brothers of Ahaziah, officiating to Ahaziah, and he killed them.
2CH 22:9 And Jehu told them to seek Ahaziah. And they overtook him in his being treated medically in Samaria. And they led him to Jehu, and he killed him. And they entombed him, for they said, He is a son of Jehoshaphat who sought the LORD with his entire heart. And there was not anyone in the house of Ahaziah prevailing with power over the kingdom.
2CH 22:10 And Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son died, and she rose up and destroyed all the seed of the kingdom in the house of Judah.
2CH 22:11 But Jehoshabeath the daughter of the king took Joash son of Ahaziah, and stole him from the midst of the sons of the king being put to death. And she put him and his nourishment in the storeroom of the beds. And the daughter of king Jehoram hid him, Jehoshabeath the sister of Ahaziah, the wife of Jehoiada the priest. And she hid him from the face of Athaliah, and she did not kill him.
2CH 22:12 And he was being hid with her in the house of God six years. And Athaliah reigned over the land.
2CH 23:1 And in the seventh year Jehoiada determined, and the commanders of hundreds took Azariah son of Jehoram, and Ishmael son of Jehohanan, and Azariah son of Obed, and Maaseiah son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat son of Zichri, with him in covenant.
2CH 23:2 And they encircled Judah, and gathered the Levites from out of all the cities of Judah, and the rulers of the families of Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
2CH 23:3 And all the assembly ordained a covenant in the house of God with the king. And he said to them, Behold, the son of the king, let him reign! as the LORD spoke concerning the house of David.
2CH 23:4 And now this is the word which you shall do. The third of you of the priests and of the Levites enter on the sabbath, and go unto the gates of the entrances;
2CH 23:5 and the third unto the house of the king; and the third unto the gate in the middle! And all the people will be in the courtyards of the house of the LORD.
2CH 23:6 And let no one enter into the house of the LORD except the priests and the Levites, and the ones officiating to the Levites! They shall enter, for they are holy. And all the people let guard the watches of the LORD!
2CH 23:7 And the Levites shall encircle the king round about, each man and his weapon in his hand; and the one entering into the house shall die. And they will be with the king for his entering and exiting.
2CH 23:8 And the Levites and all Judah did according to all as much as Jehoiada the priest gave charge. And each man took his men entering on the sabbath, unto exiting of the sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not rest up the daily rotations.
2CH 23:9 And Jehoiada the priest gave the commanders of hundreds orders, and the swords, and the large shields \Gr dorata kai taV aspidaV - spears and the shields., and the small shields which was of king David in the house of God.
2CH 23:10 And he stationed all the people, each with his weapons, from the protrusion of the house at the right, unto the protrusion of the house at the left by the altar, and at the house by the king round about.
2CH 23:11 And he led out the son of the king, and put upon him the crown, and the testimony, and made him to reign. And Jehoiada the priest and his sons anointed him, and said, Let the king live!
2CH 23:12 And Athaliah heard the sound of the people running, and acknowledging, and praising the king. And she entered to the king, into the house of the LORD.
2CH 23:13 And she beheld, and behold, the king stood at his station, and at the entrance were the rulers and the trumpets. And the rulers were around the king. And all the people of the land were being glad and trumpeting with the trumpets, and the ones singing with the instruments of the odes, the singers and ones singing praise. And Athaliah tore her robe, and yelled, and said, Conspiracy, conspiracy.
2CH 23:14 And came forth Jehoiada the priest, and gave charge to the commanders of hundreds, and to the chiefs of the force. And he said to them, Lead her outside of the house, and go forth after her, and let her die by the sword! For the priest said, Let her not die in the house of the LORD!
2CH 23:15 And they placed hands upon her, and she went through the gate of the horsemen of the house of the king, and they put her to death there.
2CH 23:16 And Jehoiada ordained a covenant between him, and between the people, and between the king, to be for a people to the LORD.
2CH 23:17 And all the people of the land entered into the house of Baal, and tore it down, and his altars; and his images they ground fine, and they put to death Mattan the priest of Baal before his altars.
2CH 23:18 And Jehoiada the priest committed the works of the house of the LORD in the hand of the priests and Levites. And he reestablished the daily rotations of the priests and the Levites, as David separated for the house of the LORD, to offer to the LORD whole burnt offerings, as is written in the law of Moses, with gladness and with odes, by the hand of David.
2CH 23:19 And the gatekeepers stood at the gates of the house of the LORD, that there shall not enter in anything unclean.
2CH 23:20 And he took the patriarchs, and the mighty ones, and the rulers of the people, and all the people of the land, and conducted the king into the the house of the LORD. And he entered through the inner gate into the house of the king. And they sat the king upon the throne of the kingdom.
2CH 23:21 And all the people of the land were glad, and the city was still. And Athaliah they put to death by the sword.
2CH 24:1 Joash was seven years old in his taking reign, and forty years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Zibiah from Beer-sheba.
2CH 24:2 And Joash did the upright thing before the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest.
2CH 24:3 And Jehoiada took two wives to himself, and engendered sons and daughters.
2CH 24:4 And it came to pass after these things, that it came upon the heart of Joash to repair the house of the LORD.
2CH 24:5 And he gathered the priests and the Levites, and said to them, Go forth into the cities of Judah, and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of the LORD your God until fit, year by year, and hasten to speak! And the Levites hastened not.
2CH 24:6 And the king called Jehoiada the ruler, and said to him, Why did you not require concerning the Levites, so as to carry in from Judah and Jerusalem the adjudged concern by Moses the man of God, for the assembly of Israel in the tent of the testimony?
2CH 24:7 For Athaliah was lawless, and her sons tore down the house of God; and also all the holy things of the house of the LORD they appointed to the Baals.
2CH 24:8 And the king said, Let there be a container, and let it be put at the gate of the house of the LORD outside!
2CH 24:9 And let them proclaim in Judah and in Jerusalem, to carry in to the LORD as Moses the servant of God said unto Israel in the wilderness.
2CH 24:10 And all the rulers were glad and all the people, and they carried in and cast into the container until of which it was filled.
2CH 24:11 And it came to pass in the time to bring in the container to the superintendents of the king by the hand of the Levites, that when they beheld that the money was superabundant, that the scribe of the king came, and the superintendent of the great priest, and they emptied out the container, and lifted and placed it upon its place. Thus they did day by day, and they gathered much money.
2CH 24:12 And the king and Jehoiada the priest gave it to the ones doing the works for the work of the house of the LORD. And they hired quarriers and fabricators to repair the house of the LORD, and braziers of iron and of brass to strengthen the house of the LORD.
2CH 24:13 And the ones doing the works did so, and there ascended the length of the works by their hands. And they reestablished the house of the LORD in its position, and strengthened it.
2CH 24:14 And as they completed it, they brought to the king and to Jehoiada the rest of the money; and they made with it items for the house of the LORD, items for the ministry, and of the whole burnt offerings, and incense pans, and gold and silver vessels. And they offered whole burnt offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of Jehoiada.
2CH 24:15 And Jehoiada grew old, and was full of days. And he came to an end being a son a hundred and thirty years at his coming to an end.
2CH 24:16 And they entombed him in the city of David with the kings, for he did goodness with Israel, and with God, and his house.
2CH 24:17 And it came to pass after the decease of Jehoiada, the rulers of Judah entered and did obeisance to the king. Then the king heeded them.
2CH 24:18 And they abandoned the house of the LORD the God of their fathers, and served to Ashtoreth, and to the idols. And there came anger against Judah and against Jerusalem in their trespass.
2CH 24:19 And he sent to them prophets to turn them to the LORD. And they testified to them, and they hearkened not.
2CH 24:20 And spirit of God was put on Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he rose above the people. And he said to them, Thus says the LORD, Why do you pass by the commandments of the LORD, that your way shall not prosper? For you abandoned the LORD, and he shall abandon you.
2CH 24:21 And they assailed against him, and stoned him with stones by command of Joash the king in the courtyard of the house of the LORD.
2CH 24:22 And Joash the king remembered not the mercy of which Jehoiada his father performed with him, and he put his son to death. And as he died, he said, The LORD behold even to judge!
2CH 24:23 And it came to pass at the completion of the year, the force of Syria ascended against him, and came against Judah, and against Jerusalem. And they utterly destroyed all the rulers of the people from among the people, and all their spoils they sent to the king of Damascus.
2CH 24:24 For the force of Syria came with a few men, but God delivered up into their hands an exceedingly vast force, for they abandoned the LORD God of their fathers. And with Joash they executed judgments.
2CH 24:25 And after their going forth from him, in abandoning him with great infirmities, that his servants assailed against him because of the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest. And they killed him upon his bed, and he died. And they entombed him in the city of David, but they did not entomb him in the tomb of the kings.
2CH 24:26 And the ones assailing against him - Zabad son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad son of Shimrith the Moabitess.
2CH 24:27 And his sons, and the greatest concerns about him, and the groundwork of the house of God, and the rest, behold, it is written upon the writing of the scroll of the kings. And Amaziah his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 25:1 A son being twenty and five years old was Amaziah in his taking reign; and twenty and nine years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
2CH 25:2 And he did the upright thing before the LORD, but not with a full heart.
2CH 25:3 And it came to pass as the kingdom was placed in his hand, that he killed his servants - the ones murdering his father the king.
2CH 25:4 And their sons were not killed according to the covenant of the law of the LORD, as is written in the law of Moses, as the LORD gave charge, saying, Fathers shall not die for the children, and the sons shall not die for the fathers, but only each for his own sin shall die.
2CH 25:5 And Amaziah gathered the house of Judah, and established them according to the houses of their families for commanders of thousands, and commanders of hundreds, in all Judah and Benjamin. And he numbered them from twenty years old and up. And he found of them three hundred thousand mighty ones going forth for war, mighty ones holding spear and shield.
2CH 25:6 And he hired from Israel a hundred thousand mighty ones in strength for a hundred talents of silver.
2CH 25:7 And the man of God came to him, saying, O king, let not the force of Israel go with you! for the LORD is not with Israel - of any of the sons of Ephraim.
2CH 25:8 For if you should undertake to grow strong by these in the battle, the LORD will put you to flight before the enemies, for there is strength to the LORD to help, and to put to flight.
2CH 25:9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, And what shall I do with the hundred talents which I gave to the force of Israel? And the man of God said, It is with the LORD to give to you more of these.
2CH 25:10 And Amaziah parted the force coming to him from Ephraim, to go forth to their place. And they were enraged in their anger exceedingly over Judah, and returned to their places in an anger of rage.
2CH 25:11 And Amaziah grew strong, and took to himself his people, and went into the valley of salts, and struck there the sons of Seir - ten thousand.
2CH 25:12 And the sons of Judah took alive ten thousand, and brought them upon the tip of the precipice, and flung them from the tip of the precipice, and all were torn to pieces.
2CH 25:13 And the sons of the force, whom Amaziah returned so as to not go with him to war, assailed against the cities of Judah from Samaria and unto Beth-horon, and struck among them three thousand, and despoiled many spoils.
2CH 25:14 And it came to pass after the coming of Amaziah, having struck the Edomite, that he brought to them the gods of the sons of Seir, and set them up to himself as gods, and did obeisance before them, and sacrificed to them.
2CH 25:15 And the anger of the LORD came against Amaziah, and he sent to him a prophet. And he said to him, Why did you seek the gods of the people, which rescued not their own people from your hand?
2CH 25:16 And it came to pass in the speaking to him by him, that he said to him, Have I appointed you counselor of the king? Take heed to it that they should not strike you! And the prophet kept silent, and said, I know that the LORD consulted to utterly destroy you, for he did this, and you heeded not my advice.
2CH 25:17 And Amaziah king of Judah consulted, and sent to Joash son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, for we should see each other's faces.
2CH 25:18 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thorn-bush in Lebanon sent to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son for a wife! But, behold, the wild beasts of the field in Lebanon shall come; and the wild beasts came, and trampled the thorn-bush.
2CH 25:19 You said, Behold, I struck Edom. And your heavy heart lifts you up. Now be seated in your house, for why do you unite in evil, and you shall fall, and Judah with you?
2CH 25:20 But Amaziah hearkened not, for by the LORD it was to deliver him into the hands of Joash, for he inquired of the gods of the Edomites.
2CH 25:21 And Joash the king of Israel ascended. And they saw one another, he and Amaziah king of Judah, in Beth-shemesh, which is of Judah.
2CH 25:22 And Judah was put to flight before the face of Israel. And each man fled unto his tent.
2CH 25:23 And Amaziah king of Judah was overtaken by Joash king of Israel in Beth-shemesh, and he brought him to Jerusalem, and tore down some from the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the gate of the corner - four hundred cubits.
2CH 25:24 And all the gold, and the silver, and all the items being found in the house of the LORD, and the things with Obed Edom, and the treasures of the house of the king, and of the things of the sons of the alliances he took, and returned to Samaria.
2CH 25:25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the dying of Joash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
2CH 25:26 And the rest of the words of Amaziah, the first and the last, behold are they not written upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel?
2CH 25:27 And at the time when Amaziah departed from the LORD, that they made an attempt against him in a conspiracy in Jerusalem, and he fled unto Lachish. But they sent after him unto Lachish, and killed him there.
2CH 25:28 And they took him upon the horses, and entombed him with his fathers in the city of David.
2CH 26:1 And all the people of the land took Uzziah, and he was a son sixteen years old, and gave him reign in place of his father Amaziah.
2CH 26:2 He built Elath, and he returned it to Judah, after the king slept with his fathers.
2CH 26:3 Uzziah was a son sixteen years old in his taking reign, and fifty and two years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Jecoliah, from Jerusalem.
2CH 26:4 And he did upright before the LORD, according to all as much as Amaziah his father did.
2CH 26:5 And he was seeking after the LORD in the days of Zechariah, the one perceiving in a vision of God. And in the days in which he sought after the LORD, the LORD God prospered him.
2CH 26:6 And he went forth and waged war against the Philistines, and tore down the walls of Gath, and the walls of Jabneh, and the walls of Ashdod, and built cities among Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
2CH 26:7 And the LORD strengthened him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians dwelling upon the rock, and against the Mehunims.
2CH 26:8 And the Mehunims gave gifts to Uzziah. And his name was famous unto the entrance of Egypt, for he strengthened himself even higher.
2CH 26:9 And Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem, both at the gate of the corner, and at the gate of the ravine, and at the corners; and he strengthened them.
2CH 26:10 And he built towers in the wilderness, and quarried many wells, for much cattle existed to him in Sephela and in the plain - farmers and vine dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel, for he was fond of husbandry.
2CH 26:11 And there existed to Uzziah a force to make war, and for going forth into battle array. And the count of the numbering of them was through the hand of Jeiel the scribe, and Maaseiah the judge, and through the hand of Hananiah, the substitute for the king.
2CH 26:12 All the number of the rulers of the families of the mighty ones for war - two thousand six hundred.
2CH 26:13 And with them a force for warfare - three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred. These are the ones preparing for war in a force of strength, to help the king over the opponents.
2CH 26:14 And Uzziah made preparations for them, giving to all the force shields, and spears, and helmets, and chest plates, and bows, and slings for stones.
2CH 26:15 And he made in Jerusalem machines being constructed for devices to be upon the towers, and upon the corners, to throw arrows and great stones. And their apparatus was heard about unto a distance; for he was wonderfully helped until of which time he grew strong.
2CH 26:16 And as he grew strong, his heart was raised up to corrupt. And he transgressed against the LORD his God, and entered into the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of the of incenses.
2CH 26:17 And Azariah the priest entered after him, and with him eighty priests of the LORD - sons of power.
2CH 26:18 And they stood by against Uzziah the king, and said to him, It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the LORD, but only to the priests, to the sons of Aaron having been sanctified to burn incense. Go forth from the sanctuary! For you departed from the LORD, for this will not be to you for glory from the LORD God.
2CH 26:19 And Uzziah was enraged, and in his hand was the incense pan to burn incense in the temple. And in his being enraged against the priests, that leprosy rose on his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD, upon the altar of the incenses.
2CH 26:20 And Azariah the foremost priest turned unto him, and the priests, and behold, he was leprous in the forehead, and they hastened him from there; for even he himself hastened to come forth, for the LORD reproved him.
2CH 26:21 And Uzziah the king was leprous until the day of his decease. And he settled in a house for the sick, being leprous, for he was severed from the house of the LORD. And Jotham his son was over his kingdom, to judge the people of the land.
2CH 26:22 And the rest of the words of Uzziah, the first and the last, are written by Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet.
2CH 26:23 And Uzziah slept with his fathers. And they entombed him with his fathers in the field of the burial place of the kings, for they said, He is leprous. And Jotham his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 27:1 Jotham was a son twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name to his mother was Jerousha, daughter of Zadok.
2CH 27:2 And he did the upright thing before the LORD, according to all which Uzziah his father did. Only into the temple of the LORD he did not enter. And yet the people corrupted themselves.
2CH 27:3 He built the gate of the house of the LORD, the high one, and in the wall of Ophel he built much.
2CH 27:4 And he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the forests he built palaces and towers.
2CH 27:5 And he did combat against the king of the sons of Ammon, and prevailed against him. And the sons of Ammon gave to him each year a hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand cors of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. These the king of the sons of Ammon brought to him each year, and in the second year, and the third.
2CH 27:6 And Jotham grew strong, for he prepared his ways before the LORD his God.
2CH 27:7 And the rest of the words of Jotham, and the war, and his actions, behold, they are written upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2CH 27:8 Jotham was a son twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the city of David. And Ahaz his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 28:1 Ahaz was a son twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem. And He did not do the upright thing before the LORD as David his father.
2CH 28:2 And he went according to the ways of the kings of Israel, for he made carved images to the Baals.
2CH 28:3 And he sacrificed in the ravine of the Son of Hinnom, and led his children through in fire, according to the abominations of the nations which the LORD removed from the face of the sons of Israel.
2CH 28:4 And he burned incense upon the high places, and upon the roofs, and underneath every tree of the woods.
2CH 28:5 And the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria. And he struck among him, and captured for captivity many of them, and led them unto Damascus. And also into the hands of the king of Israel he delivered him, and struck in him a great calamity.
2CH 28:6 And Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel killed in Judah in one day a hundred and twenty thousand mighty men of strength, because they left the LORD the God of their fathers.
2CH 28:7 And Zechri the mighty man of Ephraim killed Maaseiah the son of the king, and Azrikam the leader of his house, and Elkanah the second of the king.
2CH 28:8 And the sons of Israel took captive of their brothers two hundred thousand, women, and sons, and daughters. And they despoiled many spoils of theirs, and brought the spoils to Samaria.
2CH 28:9 And the prophet of the LORD was there - Oded was the name to him. And he came forth to meet the force of the ones coming to Samaria. And he said to them, Behold, the anger of the LORD God of your fathers is upon Judah, and he delivered them into your hands. But you killed among them in anger, and it came unto the heavens.
2CH 28:10 And now you speak to acquire the sons of Judah and Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen! Behold I am not with you to testify to the LORD your God, the trespasses of yours are with the LORD your God.
2CH 28:11 And now hear me, and return the captivity which you captured from your brothers! For the anger of the rage of the LORD is upon you.
2CH 28:12 And the rulers of the sons of Ephraim rose up (Azariah the son of Johanan, and Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai) unto the ones coming from the war.
2CH 28:13 And they said to them, In no way should you bring the captivity here to us, for in trespassing you speak against the LORD upon us to add upon our sins, and upon our ignorance, for our sin is great, and the anger of the rage of the LORD is upon Israel.
2CH 28:14 And the warriors released the captivity and the spoils before the rulers and all the assembly.
2CH 28:15 And men rose up who were called by name, and they took hold of the captivity. And all the naked they covered from the spoils, and clothed them, and tied sandals upon them, and gave to them to eat and to drink, and to anoint; and they assisted them by beasts of burden for all the infirm, and placed them in Jericho, the city of palms, with their brothers. And they returned to Samaria.
2CH 28:16 In that time king Ahaz sent to the king of Assyria to give help to him.
2CH 28:17 And in this the Edomites attacked and struck in Judah, and they took captive a captivity.
2CH 28:18 And the Philistines attacked against the cities of the plain, and of the south of Judah, and took Beth-shemesh, and Ajalon, and Gederoth, and Shocho and her towns, and Timnah and her towns, and Gimzo and her towns. And they dwelt there.
2CH 28:19 For the LORD humbled Judah because of Ahaz king of Judah, because he uncovered nakedness in Judah, and revolted in a defection from the LORD.
2CH 28:20 And Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria came against him, and afflicted him.
2CH 28:21 And Ahaz took the things in the house of the LORD, and the things in the house of the king, and of the rulers, and gave to the king of Assyria - but he was not for a help to him,
2CH 28:22 but only to afflict him. And he proceeded to leave from the LORD. And king Ahaz said,
2CH 28:23 I will inquire of the gods of Damascus, the ones beating me. And he said, Because the gods of the king of Syria strengthens them, therefore I shall sacrifice to them, and they will assist me. And they became to him as an impediment, and to all Israel.
2CH 28:24 And Ahaz removed the items of the house of the LORD, and cut them in pieces, and locked the doors of the house of the LORD, and made for himself altars in every corner in Jerusalem.
2CH 28:25 And in every city, and in a city of Judah he made high places to burn incense to alien gods, and provoked to anger the LORD God of his fathers.
2CH 28:26 And the rest of his words, and his actions, the first and last, behold, they are written upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2CH 28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the city of David; for they did not bring him into the tombs of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 29:1 Hezekiah was a son being twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and twenty nine years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name to his mother was Abijah, daughter of Zechariah.
2CH 29:2 And he did the upright thing before the LORD, according to all as much as David his father did.
2CH 29:3 And it came to pass as he was established over his kingdom, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD, and repaired them.
2CH 29:4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and stood them in the side towards the east,
2CH 29:5 and said to them, Hear me, O Levites! Now sanctify yourselves, and sanctify the house of the LORD God of your fathers, and cast out the uncleanness from the holies!
2CH 29:6 For our fathers revolted, and did the evil thing before the LORD our God, and abandoned him, and turned their face from the tent of the LORD, and gave him the back of the neck.
2CH 29:7 And they locked the doors of the temple, and extinguished the lamps, and did not burn incense, and the whole burnt offerings they did not offer in the holy place to the God of Israel.
2CH 29:8 And the LORD was provoked to anger over Judah and Jerusalem, and he appointed them for an astonishment, and for extinction, and for a hissing, as you see with your eyes.
2CH 29:9 And behold, our fathers fell by the sword; and our sons, and our daughters and our wives went into captivity in a land not of their own.
2CH 29:10 Because of this it became upon my heart to ordain a covenant to the LORD God of Israel, and he shall turn from us the anger of his rage.
2CH 29:11 And now, you should not stop to act, for by you the LORD has taken you up to stand before him to officiate to him, and to be his ministers, and ones burning incense.
2CH 29:12 And the Levites rose up - Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of Kohath; and from the sons of Merari - Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel; and from the sons of Gershon - Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah.
2CH 29:13 And of the sons of Elizaphan - Shimri and Jeiel; and of the sons of Asaph - Zechariah and Mattaniah;
2CH 29:14 and of the sons of Heman - Jehiel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun - Shemaiah and Uzziel.
2CH 29:15 And they gathered their brothers, and purified themselves according to the commandment of the king, by order of the LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.
2CH 29:16 And the priests entered inside, into the house of the LORD, to purify it. And they cast out all the uncleanness they found in the house of the LORD in the courtyard of the house of the LORD. And the Levites received to bring it forth unto the rushing stream Kidron outside.
2CH 29:17 And they began on day one of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month they entered into the temple of the LORD. And they sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days; and on the sixteenth day of the first month they completed.
2CH 29:18 And they entered inside to Hezekiah the king, and said, We purified all the things in the house of the LORD, and the altar of the whole burnt offering, and its utensils, and the table of the place setting, and all its utensils.
2CH 29:19 And all the utensils, which king Ahaz defiled during his kingdom in his defection, we prepared and sanctified, and behold, it is before the altar of the LORD.
2CH 29:20 And Hezekiah the king rose early, and brought together the rulers of the city, and ascended into the house of the LORD.
2CH 29:21 And he led up seven calves, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven winter yearlings of goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for the holy things, and for Judah. And he told the sons of Aaron the priests, to offer them upon the altar of the LORD.
2CH 29:22 And they sacrificed the calves, and the priests took the blood and poured upon the altar. And they sacrificed the rams, and poured upon the altar the blood. And they sacrificed the lambs, and they poured the blood upon the altar.
2CH 29:23 And they brought the winter yearlings for a sin offering before the king and the assembly, and placed their hands upon them.
2CH 29:24 And the priests sacrificed them, and atoned of their blood against the altar, and atoned for all Israel, for the king said, The whole burnt offering and the ones for a sin offering are for all Israel.
2CH 29:25 And he stationed the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, and with stringed instruments, and with lutes, according to the commandment of David the king, and Gad the seer to the king, and Nathan the prophet. For by the commandment of the LORD the order was in the hand of his prophets.
2CH 29:26 And the Levites stood with instruments of David, and the priests with trumpets.
2CH 29:27 And Hezekiah spoke to offer the whole burnt offering upon the altar. And in the beginning of offering the whole burnt offering they began to sing to the LORD, and with the trumpets with the instruments of David the king of Israel.
2CH 29:28 And all the assembly did obeisance, and the psalm singers were singing, and the trumpets were trumpeting, until of which the whole burnt offering was completed.
2CH 29:29 And as they completed offering, the king bent and all the ones being found with him, and did obeisance.
2CH 29:30 And Hezekiah the king and the rulers spoke to the Levites for them to praise the LORD by the words of David, and of Asaph the prophet. And they sang praise with gladness, and fell and did obeisance.
2CH 29:31 And Hezekiah answered and said, Now you filled your hands to the LORD, come forward, and bring sacrifices of praise into the house of the LORD! And the assembly brought sacrifices and praise into the house of the LORD; and all eager in heart brought whole burnt offerings.
2CH 29:32 And the number of the whole burnt offerings which the assembly offered was - seventy calves, a hundred rams, two hundred lambs; all these for a whole burnt offering to the LORD.
2CH 29:33 And the ones having been sanctified - six hundred calves, three thousand sheep.
2CH 29:34 But the priests were few, and not able to flay the whole burnt offering. And assisting them were the Levites, until of which the work was completed, and until of which the other priests sanctified themselves, for the Levites more eagerly sanctified themselves than the priests.
2CH 29:35 And the whole burnt offering was abundant, with the fats of the one consecrated of the deliverance offering, and the libations of the whole burnt offering. And the work in the house of the LORD was set up.
2CH 29:36 And Hezekiah and all the people were glad, because God prepared the people; for the matter happened suddenly.
2CH 30:1 And Hezekiah sent unto all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters unto Ephraim and Manasseh, to come into the house of the LORD in Jerusalem, to observe the passover to the LORD God of Israel.
2CH 30:2 And the king planned, and the rulers, and all the assembly in Jerusalem, to observe the passover in the second month.
2CH 30:3 For they were not able to observe it in that time, for the priests were not sanctified enough, and the people were not gathered in Jerusalem.
2CH 30:4 And the matter was pleasing before the king, and before the assembly.
2CH 30:5 And they established a communication to go through by proclamation in all Israel, from Beer-sheba unto Dan, to come and to observe the passover to the LORD God of Israel in Jerusalem. For the multitude did not do according to the scripture.
2CH 30:6 And the ones running went with the letters from the king and the rulers, into all Israel and Judah, according to the order of the king, saying, Sons of Israel, return to the LORD God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and he will return to the ones having escaped, surviving from the hand of the king of Assyria!
2CH 30:7 And do not be as your fathers and your brothers, who revolted from the LORD God of their fathers! and he delivered them into desolation, as you see.
2CH 30:8 And do not harden your necks as your fathers! Give glory to the LORD God, and enter into his sanctuary, which he sanctified into the eon! And serve to the LORD your God, and he will turn the rage of his anger from you!
2CH 30:9 For in your turning to the LORD, your brothers and your children will be shown compassions before all the ones taking them captive, and he will return them to this land. For the LORD our God is merciful and pitying, and he will not turn his face from us, if we should return to him.
2CH 30:10 And the runners were traveling city by city in mount Ephraim and Manasseh, even unto Zebulun. And they became as victims of ones ridiculing them, and deriding them.
2CH 30:11 But men from Asher, and Manasseh, and from Zebulun felt shame, and came unto Jerusalem.
2CH 30:12 And in Judah the hand of God came to give them one heart to come and to do according to the order of the king and of the rulers, by the word of the LORD.
2CH 30:13 And many people gathered in Jerusalem to observe the holiday of the unleavened breads in the second month - an exceedingly vast assembly.
2CH 30:14 And they rose up and demolished the altars in Jerusalem; and all in which they burned incense to the lying idols they tore down and tossed into the rushing stream Kidron.
2CH 30:15 And they sacrificed the passover on the fourteenth of the second month. And the priests and the Levites felt shame, and sanctified themselves, and offered whole burnt offerings in the house of the LORD.
2CH 30:16 And they stood at their station, according to their responsibility, according to the commandment of Moses the man of God. And the priests received the blood from out of the hand of the Levites.
2CH 30:17 For a multitude of the assembly was not purified. And the Levites were to sacrifice the passover to all not able to be purified to the LORD.
2CH 30:18 For the vast part of the people from Ephraim, and Manasseh, and Issachar, and Zebulun, were not purified; but even they ate the passover not according to the scripture. And Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, The LORD, the good God atone for all
2CH 30:19 straightening out the heart to inquire of the LORD God of their fathers, even not purified as according to the purity of the holy things!
2CH 30:20 And the LORD heeded Hezekiah and healed the people.
2CH 30:21 And the sons of Israel being found in Jerusalem observed the holiday of the unleavened breads seven days with great gladness. And they sang praise to the LORD day by day, even the priests and the Levites with instruments of strength to the LORD.
2CH 30:22 And Hezekiah spoke unto the heart of all of the Levites, and of the ones perceiving with good understanding in the LORD. And they completed the holiday of the unleavened breads in seven days, sacrificing a sacrifice of deliverance offering, and making acknowledgment to the LORD God of their fathers.
2CH 30:23 And all the assembly counseled to observe another seven days. And they observed another seven days with gladness.
2CH 30:24 For Hezekiah the king of Judah dedicated to all the assembly a thousand calves, and seven thousand sheep. And the rulers dedicated for the people a thousand calves, and ten thousand sheep; and were sanctified of the priests in multitude.
2CH 30:25 And all the assembly of Judah was glad, and the priests, and the Levites, and all the assembly coming from Israel, and the foreigners coming from the land of Israel, and the ones dwelling Judah.
2CH 30:26 And there was great gladness in Jerusalem, for from the days of Solomon son of David king of Israel there was not such a holiday in Jerusalem.
2CH 30:27 And the priests the Levites rose up and blessed the people. And their voice was heeded, and their prayer came into his sacred home in the heaven.
2CH 31:1 And as all these things were completed, all Israel went forth, the ones being found in the cities of Judah, and they broke the monuments, and knocked down the sacred groves, and tore down the high places, and demolished the altars from all Judea, and Benjamin, and from Ephraim, and from Manasseh, unto completion. And all Israel returned each unto his inheritance, and unto their cities.
2CH 31:2 And Hezekiah ordered the daily rotations of the priests, and of the Levites, and the daily rotations of each according to his ministration, to the priests and to the Levites, for the whole burnt offering, and for the sacrifice of deliverance offering, and to praise, and to acknowledge, and to officiate at the gates in the courtyards of the house of the LORD.
2CH 31:3 And the portion of the king from his possessions were appointed for the whole burnt offerings - the early morning and the dusk, and for the whole burnt offerings of the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the holidays, being written in the law of the LORD.
2CH 31:4 And he spoke to the people dwelling in Jerusalem to give the portion of the priests and the Levites, so that they should grow strong in the ministry of the house of the LORD.
2CH 31:5 And as he assigned the word, the sons of Israel were superabundant in first-fruit of grain, and wine, and olive oil, and honey, and every offspring of the field. And the sons of Israel and Judah brought a tenth of all in multitude.
2CH 31:6 And the ones dwelling in the cities of Judah, also themselves brought a tenth of the calves, and sheep, and a tenth of the goats. And they sanctified to the LORD their God, and carried in and put heaps upon heaps.
2CH 31:7 In the third month the heaps began to be founded; and in the seventh month they were completed.
2CH 31:8 And Hezekiah and the rulers came and saw the heaps, and they blessed the LORD, and his people Israel.
2CH 31:9 And Hezekiah inquired of the priests and of the Levites concerning the heaps.
2CH 31:10 And Azariah the priest the ruler of the house of Zadok spoke to him, and said, From of which time the first-fruit began to be brought into the house of the LORD, we ate and drank, and we left behind unto in abundance, for the LORD blessed his people; and we left behind still this multitude.
2CH 31:11 And Hezekiah spoke to prepare chambers in the house of the LORD; and they prepared.
2CH 31:12 And they carried in there the first-fruits, and the tenth parts in trust. And over them for supervisor was Cononiah the Levite, and Shimei his brother relieving,
2CH 31:13 and Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Manath, and Benaiah being placed by Cononiah and Shimei his brother, as Hezekiah the king assigned, and Azariah the leader of the house of the LORD.
2CH 31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the gatekeeper according to the east, was over the gifts, to give the first-fruits of the LORD and the holy things of the holies,
2CH 31:15 through the hand of Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, and Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities through the hand of the priests, in trust, to give to their brothers according to the daily rotations, according to the great and the small;
2CH 31:16 outside of the genealogy of the males from three years and up, to all entering into the house of the LORD, for a reckoning of days in its day, for ministration of the daily rotation of their arrangement.
2CH 31:17 This is the distribution of the priests according to the houses of their families, and the Levites in their daily rotations from twenty years old and up, in arrangement,
2CH 31:18 in classification, in all genealogy of their sons, and their daughters, in the entire multitude, (for in trust they sanctified the holy,)
2CH 31:19 and to the sons of Aaron officiating as priests in the country areas, and in their cities, in every city, and a city where men who were named by name to give a portion to every male among the priests, and to every one being counted among the Levites.
2CH 31:20 And thus Hezekiah did in all Judah. And he did the good, and the upright, and the true before the LORD his God.
2CH 31:21 And in every work in which he began in the work in the house of the LORD, and in the law, and in the orders, he sought after his God from his entire soul, and he acted, and his way prospered.
2CH 32:1 And after these words, and this truth, came Sennacherib king of the Assyrians, and came unto Judah, and camped about the walled cities, and spoke at first to take them.
2CH 32:2 And Hezekiah beheld that Sennacherib comes, and his face was to wage war against Jerusalem.
2CH 32:3 And he consulted with his elders, and the mighty ones to obstruct the waters of the springs which was outside the city - and they vigorously assisted him.
2CH 32:4 And he brought together many people, and they obstructed the waters of the springs, and the rushing stream separating through the city, saying, Should the king of the Assyrians come and find much water, and grow strong?
2CH 32:5 And Hezekiah strengthened himself, and built up every wall having been razed, and towers, and another outside wall around. And he strengthened the elevation of the city of David, and carefully prepared many weapons.
2CH 32:6 And he put rulers of war over the people. And they were brought together to him upon the square of the gate of the city. And he spoke unto their heart, saying,
2CH 32:7 Be strong and be manly! Fear not, nor be terrified from the face of the king of Assyria, nor from the face of any of the nations with him! For with us are more over the ones with him.
2CH 32:8 With him are arms of flesh; but with us is the LORD our God, to deliver and to wage our war. And the people relied with confidence upon the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.
2CH 32:9 And after these things Sennacherib king of the Assyrians sent his servants unto Jerusalem. And he was by Lachish, and all his military with him. And he sent to Hezekiah king of Judah, and to all Judah in Jerusalem, saying,
2CH 32:10 Thus says Sennacherib king of the Assyrians, Upon whom do you rely, that you settle in the stronghold in Jerusalem?
2CH 32:11 Has not Hezekiah deceived you to deliver you into death, and into hunger, and into thirst, saying, The LORD our God shall deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria?
2CH 32:12 Is this not Hezekiah who removed his altars, and his high places, and said to Judah, and to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, saying, Before this altar you shall do obeisance, and upon it burn incense!
2CH 32:13 Do you not know what I and my fathers did to all the peoples of the places. In being able, were the gods of the nations of all the earth able to deliver their people from my hand?
2CH 32:14 Who among all the gods of these nations which my fathers utterly destroyed - who is able to rescue his people from my hand, that your God shall be able to deliver you from out of my hand?
2CH 32:15 And now, let not Hezekiah deceive you, and not persuade you to do according to these things, and do not trust him; for in no way was a god of any nation and kingdom able to deliver his people from out of my hand, and from out of the hand of my fathers. For in no way shall your God deliver you from out of my hand.
2CH 32:16 And still his servants spoke against the LORD God, and against Hezekiah his servant.
2CH 32:17 And he wrote a scroll to berate the LORD God of Israel. And he said concerning him, saying, As the gods of the nations of the earth did not rescue their people from my hand, so in no way shall the God of Hezekiah rescue his people from out of my hand.
2CH 32:18 And they yelled with a great voice in Jewish unto the people of Jerusalem upon the wall, to make them afraid of them, and to tear them down, so as to first take the city.
2CH 32:19 And he spoke against the God of Jerusalem, as also against the gods of the peoples of the land - the works of the hands of men.
2CH 32:20 And Hezekiah the king prayed, and Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet concerning these things, and yelled into the heaven.
2CH 32:21 And the LORD sent an angel, and he obliterated every mighty warrior, and ruler, and commandant in the camp of the king of Assyria. And he returned with shame of face into his land. And he entered into the house of his god, and some of the ones coming forth from his belly threw him down by the broadsword.
2CH 32:22 And the LORD delivered Hezekiah and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem from out of the hand of Sennacherib king of Assyria, and from out of the hand of all, and rested them round about.
2CH 32:23 And many brought gifts to the LORD in Jerusalem, and presents to Hezekiah king of Judah. And he was elevated in the eyes of all the nations after these things.
2CH 32:24 In those days Hezekiah became ill unto death, and prayed to the LORD. And he heeded him, and gave to him a sign.
2CH 32:25 And Hezekiah rendered not according to the recompense which he recompensed to him, but exalted his heart. And wrath came upon him, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.
2CH 32:26 And Hezekiah was humbled from the haughtiness of his heart, he and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem. But the wrath of the LORD did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.
2CH 32:27 And there came to Hezekiah riches and glory - exceedingly much. And he made to himself treasuries of silver, and of gold, and of valuable stone, and for aromatics, and made armories, and storehouses for all the items of the desire,
2CH 32:28 and cities for the produce of the grain, and wine, and olive oil, and stables for every beast, and havens for the flocks.
2CH 32:29 And he made cities for himself, and possessions of sheep and oxen in abundance; for the LORD gave to him exceedingly vast belongings.
2CH 32:30 Hezekiah himself obstructed the delivery of the water of Gihon - the upper part, and straightened it below to the west of the city of David. And the way of Hezekiah was prospered in all his works.
2CH 32:31 And thus in the matters concerning the ambassadors of the rulers of the ones from Babylon being sent to him, to inquire of him about the miracle which took place in the land, that the LORD abandoned him, to test him, to know the things in his heart.
2CH 32:32 And the rest of the words of Hezekiah, and his mercies, behold, they are written in the prophecy of Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet, and upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2CH 32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the ascent of the burying-places of the sons of David. And glory and honor they gave to him in his death, even all Judah, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem. And Manasseh his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 33:1 Manasseh was a son being twelve years old in his taking reign, and fifty-five years he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 33:2 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD according to all the abominations of the nations whom the LORD removed from in front of the sons of Israel.
2CH 33:3 And he returned and built the high places which Hezekiah his father tore down, and set up altars to the Baals, and made sacred groves, and did obeisance to all the military of the heaven, and served to them.
2CH 33:4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, in which the LORD said, My name will be in Jerusalem into the eon.
2CH 33:5 And he built altars to all the military of the heaven in the two courtyards of the house of the LORD.
2CH 33:6 And he led his children in fire in the ground of the Son of Hinnom. And he prognosticated, and foretold, and administered potions, and established ones who deliver oracles, and enchanters. And he multiplied to do the wicked thing before the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
2CH 33:7 And he put the carved and the molten image, which he made, in the house of God, in which God said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I chose from out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name there into the eon.
2CH 33:8 And I shall not proceed to shake the foot of Israel from the land of which I gave to their fathers, if only they guard to do all things which I gave charge to them, according to all the law, and the orders, and the judgments given by the hand of Moses.
2CH 33:9 And Manasseh misled Judah and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, to act wickedly above all the nations whom the LORD removed from in front of the sons of Israel.
2CH 33:10 And the LORD spoke with Manasseh, and unto his people, and they did not listen.
2CH 33:11 And the LORD led upon them the rulers of the force of the king of Assyria. And they overtook Manasseh in bonds, and tied him in shackles, and led him into Babylon.
2CH 33:12 And as he was afflicted, he sought the face of the LORD his God, and was humbled exceedingly from in front of the God of his fathers.
2CH 33:13 And he prayed to him, and heeded him. And God heeded his yelling, and returned him unto Jerusalem over his kingdom. And Manasseh knew that the LORD - he is God.
2CH 33:14 And after these things he built a wall outside the city of David, from the southwest of Gihon, by the rushing stream going forth by the fishing gate - a circuit to the Ophel, and raised it high exceedingly. And he placed rulers of the force in all the walled cities in Judah.
2CH 33:15 And he removed the gods of the aliens, and the carved image from out of the house of the LORD, and all the altars which he built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem; and hecast them outside the city.
2CH 33:16 And he set up the altar of the LORD, and sacrificed upon it a sacrifice of deliverance offering and a praise offering, and told Judah to serve to the LORD God of Israel.
2CH 33:17 Only still the people sacrificed upon the high places, except to the LORD their God.
2CH 33:18 And the rest of the words of Manasseh, and his prayer to God, and the words of the seers speaking to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, behold, they are upon the words of the kings of Israel.
2CH 33:19 And his prayer, and as God heeded him, and all his sins, and his defections, and the places upon which he built on them the high places, and established there sacred groves, and carved images, before he returned, behold, they are written by the words of the seers.
2CH 33:20 And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they entombed him in the garden of his house. And Amon his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 33:21 Amon was a son being twenty and two years old in his taking reign, and two years he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 33:22 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD as did Manasseh his father. And to all the idols which Manasseh his father made, Amon sacrificed and served to them.
2CH 33:23 And he was not humbled before the LORD as Manasseh his father was humbled; for his son Amon multiplied in trespassing.
2CH 33:24 And his servants attacked him, and struck him in his house.
2CH 33:25 But the people of the land struck the ones attacking against king Amon. And the people of the land gave reign to Josiah his son instead of him.
2CH 34:1 Josiah was a son being eight years old in his taking reign, and thirty and one year he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 34:2 And he did the upright thing before the LORD, and went in the ways of David his father; and he turned not aside right or left.
2CH 34:3 And in the eighth year of his kingdom, and he was still a boy, he began to seek the LORD God of David his father. And in the twelfth year of his kingdom he began to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, and of the sacred groves, and of the shrines, and of the carved images, and of the molten images.
2CH 34:4 And he razed the things before his face - altars to the Baals, and the high places above them. And he cut down the sacred groves, and the carved images; and the molten images he broke and ground fine, and tossed their dust upon the face of the tombs of the ones sacrificing to them.
2CH 34:5 And the bones of the priests he incinerated upon their altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem,
2CH 34:6 even among the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon, and Naphtali, and the places round about them.
2CH 34:7 And he tore down the altars, and the sacred groves, and cut the idols in fine pieces, and all the high places he cut in pieces from all the land of Israel, and returned to Jerusalem.
2CH 34:8 And in the eighteenth year of his kingdom, when he urged the land and the house to be cleansed, he sent Shaphan son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah ruler of the city, and Joah son of Joahaz the recorder, to fortify the house of the LORD his God.
2CH 34:9 And they came to Helkiah the great priest, and gave the money that was carried into the house of God, which the Levites guarding the gate gathered by the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and of the rulers, and of all the rest in Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin, and of the ones living in Jerusalem,
2CH 34:10 and put it into the hand of the ones doing the works being placed in the house of the LORD. And they gave it to the ones doing the works in the house of the LORD, to repair and to strengthen the house.
2CH 34:11 And they gave it to the fabricators and to the builders to buy quadrangular stones and wood for beams to roof the houses which the kings of Judah utterly destroyed.
2CH 34:12 And the men were doing in trust the things over the works. And over them overseers were established - Jahath and Obadiah the Levites, of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam from out of the sons of Kohath, to oversee - and all other Levites, and all perceiving to play skillful. with instruments of odes,
2CH 34:13 and over the load carriers, and knowers concerning all of the ones doing the works in effort; and others of the Levites - scribes and judges and gatekeepers.
2CH 34:14 And in their bringing forth the money coming in as income into the house of the LORD, Helkiah the priest found the scroll of the law of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
2CH 34:15 And Helkiah responded and said to Shaphan the scribe, I found the scroll of the law in the house of the LORD. And Helkiah gave the scroll to Shaphan.
2CH 34:16 And Shaphan carried the scroll to the king, and gave yet to the king a word, saying, All the money was rendered into the hand of your servants doing the work.
2CH 34:17 And they cast in a furnace the silver found in the house of the LORD, and put it into the hand of the overseers, and into the hand of the ones doing the work.
2CH 34:18 And Shaphan the scribe reported to the king, saying, Helkiah the priest gave a scroll to me. And Shaphan read it before the king.
2CH 34:19 And it came to pass, as the king heard the words of the law, that he tore his garments.
2CH 34:20 And the king gave charge to Helkiah, and to Ahikam son of Shaphan, and to Abdon son of Micah, and to Shaphan the scribe, and to Asaiah servant of the king, saying,
2CH 34:21 Go, seek the LORD for me, and for all the ones left in Israel and Judah, concerning the words of the scroll being found! for great is the rage of the LORD which burns away against us, for our fathers listened not concerning the word of the LORD, to do according to all the things being written in this scroll.
2CH 34:22 And Helkiah went, and the ones who told the king, to Huldah the prophetess, wife of Shallum, son of Tikvath, son of Hazrah, the keeper of the cloaks; and she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second section. And they spoke to her according to these things.
2CH 34:23 And she said to them, Thus said the LORD God of Israel, Say to the man sending you to me,
2CH 34:24 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I bring evils upon this place, and upon the ones dwelling in it, of all the words being written in the scroll being read before the king of Judah;
2CH 34:25 because they abandoned me, and burnt incense to alien gods, that they should provoke me to anger by all the works of their hands; and my rage was burned against this place, and it will not be be extinguished.
2CH 34:26 And concerning the king of Judah sending you to seek the LORD, Thus shall you say to him, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, Of the words which you heard,
2CH 34:27 and because your heart feels shame, and you humbled yourself in front of me in your hearing my words against this place, and against the ones dwelling in it, and you were humbled before me, and tore your garments, and wept before me; even I heard, says the LORD.
2CH 34:28 Behold, I add you to your fathers, and you shall be added to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the evils which I bring upon this place, and upon the ones dwelling it. And they brought back the word to the king.
2CH 34:29 And the king sent and brought together the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
2CH 34:30 And the king ascended into the house of the LORD, and all Judah, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, and the priests, and the Levites, and all the people from small unto great. And he read in their ears all the words of the scroll of the covenant being found in the house of the LORD.
2CH 34:31 And the king stood upon the column and ordained a covenant before the LORD, to go before the LORD, to guard his commandments and his testimonies and his orders, with the entire heart, and with the entire soul, so as to observe the words of the covenant having been written upon this scroll.
2CH 34:32 And he established all the ones being found in Jerusalem, and in Judah, and Benjamin. And the ones dwelling in Jerusalem did according to the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers.
2CH 34:33 And Josiah removed all the abominations from out of all the land which was of the sons of Israel. And he made all the ones being found in Jerusalem and in Israel serve to the LORD their God all his days. He did not turn aside from following after the LORD God of his fathers.
2CH 35:1 And Josiah observed the passover in Jerusalem to the LORD his God. And he sacrificed the passover on the fourteenth of the first month.
2CH 35:2 And he stationed the priests at their watches, and strengthened them for the works of the house of the LORD.
2CH 35:3 And he spoke to the Levites, to the mighty ones in all Israel, to sanctify themselves to the LORD, and to put the holy ark in the house of the LORD. And they put the holy ark in the house which Solomon son of David the king of Israel built. And the king said, It is not for you to lift anything upon your shoulders. Now then, you officiate to the LORD your God, and to his people Israel!
2CH 35:4 And be prepared according to the houses of your families, and according to your daily rotations, according to the writing of David king of Israel, and by the hand of Solomon his son!
2CH 35:5 And stand in the house according to the divisions of the houses of your families, of your brothers, the sons of the people, and the portion of the house of the family to the Levites!
2CH 35:6 And sacrifice the passover, and prepare the holy things for your brothers, to observe according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses!
2CH 35:7 And Josiah dedicated for the sons of the people - sheep, and lambs, and kids from the sons of the goats, all for the passover, to everyone being found - in number thirty thousand, and three thousand calves. These were of the substance of the king.
2CH 35:8 And his rulers dedicated to the people, and to the priests, and to the Levites; and Helkiah and Zechariah and Jeiel, the rulers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the passover - sheeps and lambs and kids - two thousand and six hundred, and three hundred calves.
2CH 35:9 And Conaniah, and Shemaiah, and Nethaneel his brother, and Hashabiah, and Jehiel, and Jozabad, rulers of the Levites, dedicated for the Levites, for the passover - five thousand sheep, and five hundred calves.
2CH 35:10 And the ministration was set up, and the priests stood at their station, and the Levites in their divisions, according to the commandment of the king.
2CH 35:11 And they sacrificed the passover. And the priests poured the blood from out of their hand, and the Levites flayed.
2CH 35:12 And they prepared the whole burnt offering, to deliver them according to the division, according to the houses of the families to the sons of the people, to offer to the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so it was into the morning.
2CH 35:13 And they roasted the passover in fire according to the ordinance. And the holy pieces they boiled in the brass cauldrons, and in the kettles. And the way prospered, and they ran it to all the sons of the people.
2CH 35:14 And after this they prepared for themselves, and for the priests, (for the priests, the sons of Aaron, in offering of the whole burnt offerings and of the fat,) until night. And the Levites prepared for themselves, and for their brothers the sons of Aaron.
2CH 35:15 And the psalm singers, the sons of Asaph, were at their station, according to the commands of David, Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun, of the prophets of the king; and the rulers, and the gatekeepers, gate by gate. It was not for them to move from their ministration, for their brothers the Levites prepared for them.
2CH 35:16 And all the ministration of the LORD was set up in that day, to observe the passover, and to offer the whole burnt offerings upon the altar of the LORD, according to the command of king Josiah.
2CH 35:17 And the sons of Israel being found present observed the passover at that time, and the holiday of the unleavened breads for seven days.
2CH 35:18 And there was not a passover likened to it in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet; for all kings of Israel did not do the passover which Josiah did (and the priests, and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel being found, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem) to the LORD.
2CH 35:19 In the eighteenth year of the kingdom of Josiah this passover was observed.
2CH 35:20 And after all these things which Josiah prepared for the house, Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt ascended up against the king of the Assyrians at the river Euphrates, to wage war against him at Carchemish. And king Josiah went to meet against him.
2CH 35:21 And he sent to him messengers, saying, What is it to me and to you, O king of Judah? I come not against you today to make war, but only against the place of my war; and God told me to hasten. You take heed of the God with me, lest he ruin you.
2CH 35:22 And Josiah did not turn his face from him, but he fortified himself to wage war against him. And he hearkened not concerning the words of Pharaoh Necho by the mouth of God. And he came to wage war in the plain of Megiddo.
2CH 35:23 And the bowmen shot unto king Josiah; and the king said to his servants, Lead me out, for I am in pain exceedingly!
2CH 35:24 And his servants led him from the chariot, and hauled him upon the second chariot which was his. And they led him to Jerusalem, and he died, and was entombed with his fathers. And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned over Josiah.
2CH 35:25 And Jeremiah lamented over Josiah. And all the rulers and the ones in control spoke a lamentation over Josiah spoken until today. And they appointed it for an order unto Israel. And behold, it is written in the lamentations.
2CH 35:26 And the rest of the words of Josiah and his hope were being written in the law of the LORD.
2CH 35:27 And his words, the first and the last, behold, they are written upon the scroll of the kings of Israel and Judah.
2CH 36:1 And the people of the land took Jehoahaz son of Josiah, and anointed him, and placed him as king instead of his father in Jerusalem.
2CH 36:2 Jehoahaz was a son being twenty and three years old in his taking reign, and three months he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 36:3 And the king of Egypt removed him to not give reign to him in Jerusalem; and put a tribute upon the land of a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
2CH 36:4 And the king of Egypt placed Eliakim son of Josiah as king over Judah and Jerusalem, and converted his name to Jehoiakim. And Pharaoh Necho took Jehoahaz his brother, and brought him to Egypt.
2CH 36:5 Jehoiakim was a son being twenty and five years old in his taking reign, and eleven years he reigned in Jerusalem. And he acted wickedly before the LORD.
2CH 36:6 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon ascended against him, and bound him in brass shackles, and took him into Babylon.
2CH 36:7 And part of the items of the house of the LORD he carried away unto Babylon, and put them in his temple in Babylon.
2CH 36:8 And the rest of the words of Jehoiakim, and all which he did, behold, these are written in the scroll of the words of the days of the kings of Israel and of Judah. And Jehoiachin his son reigned instead of him.
2CH 36:9 Jehoiachin was a son being eight years old in his taking reign, and three months and ten days he reigned in Jerusalem. And he acted wickedly before the LORD.
2CH 36:10 And at the turn of the year king Nebuchadnezzar sent and brougnt him unto Babylon, with the desirable items of the house of the LORD. And Zedekiah the brother of his father reigned over Judah and Jerusalem.
2CH 36:11 Zedekiah was a son being twenty one years old in his taking reign, and eleven years he reigned in Jerusalem.
2CH 36:12 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD his God. And he did not feel shame from in front of Jeremiah the prophet, and from the mouth of the LORD,
2CH 36:13 in the annulling the things with king Nebuchadnezzar, in which he bound him by an oath according to God. And he hardened his neck, and he strengthened his heart to not return to the LORD God of Israel.
2CH 36:14 And all the honorable men of Judah, and the priests, and the people of the land multiplied to disregard by disregardings according to the abominations of the nations; and they defiled the house of the LORD in Jerusalem.
2CH 36:15 And the LORD God of their fathers sent out to them by the hand of his prophets, ones rising up early, even sending his messengers; for he was sparing his people, and his sanctuary.
2CH 36:16 And they were sneering at his messengers, and treating with contempt his words, and mocking among his prophets, until the rage of the LORD ascended among his people, until there was not a cure.
2CH 36:17 And he led against them the king of the Chaldeans. And he killed their young men by the broadsword in the house of his sanctuary, and spared not the young men; and their virgins he did not show mercy on, and their elders he took away - the whole he delivered up into their hands.
2CH 36:18 And all the items of the house of God, the great and the small, and the treasures of the house of the LORD, and all the treasures of the king, and of the great men - the whole he carried unto Babylon.
2CH 36:19 And he burnt the house of the LORD, and razed the wall of Jerusalem; and its palaces he burnt by fire, and every beautiful item he appointed for extinction.
2CH 36:20 And he resettled the remaining ones in Babylon; and they were to him and his sons for menservants until the kingdom of the Medes,
2CH 36:21 to fulfill the word of the LORD through the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land favorably receives its sabbaths - by observing the sabbath all the days of its desolation, to observe the sabbath in the fulfillment of seventy years.
2CH 36:22 In the first year of Cyrus king of the Persians, after the fulfillment of the saying of the LORD through the mouth of Jeremiah, the LORD awakened the spirit of Cyrus king of the Persians. And he exhorted to proclaim in all his kingdom in written words, saying,
2CH 36:23 Thus says Cyrus king of the Persians, To all the kingdoms of the earth the LORD God of the heaven gave to me. And he gave charge to me to build to him a house in Jerusalem in Judea. Who is there of you from out of all his people? The LORD his God will be with him - let him ascend!
EZR 1:1 And in the first year of Cyrus king of the Persians, to initiate the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah, the LORD awakened the spirit of Cyrus king of the Persians, and he exhorted by a report in all his kingdom, and indeed in written words, saying,
EZR 1:2 Thus said Cyrus the king of the Persians, All the kingdoms of the earth the LORD God of heaven gave to me. And he looked upon me to build to him a house in Jerusalem in Judea.
EZR 1:3 Who is there among you of all his people, and his God will be with him? Then let him ascend unto Jerusalem in Judea, and let him build the house of the God of Israel! He is God, the one in Jerusalem.
EZR 1:4 And every Jew being left from all the places of which he sojourned there, the men of his place shall take up for him silver and gold, and with belongings, and cattle, with the voluntary offering for the house of God in Jerusalem.
EZR 1:5 And rose up the rulers of the families of Judah, and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites - all which God awakened their spirit to ascend to build the house of the LORD in Jerusalem.
EZR 1:6 And all the ones round about them strengthened their hands with items of silver, with gold, and with belongings, and with cattle, and with gifts, besides the ones with voluntary offerings.
EZR 1:7 And king Cyrus brought forth the items of the house of the LORD which Nebuchadnezzar took from Jerusalem, and had put them in the house of his god.
EZR 1:8 And Cyrus the king of the Persians brought them out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and counted them out to Sheshbazzar the ruler of Judah.
EZR 1:9 And this is their number - wine-coolers of gold - thirty, and wine-coolers of silver - a thousand, knives for altering - nine and twenty, basins of gold - thirty,
EZR 1:10 and double items made of silver - four hundred and ten, and other items - a thousand.
EZR 1:11 All the items of gold and of silver - five thousand four hundred. The whole amount Sheshbazzar led up with the resettlement ascending from out of Babylon into Jerusalem.
EZR 2:1 And these are the sons of the places ascending from the captivity of the resettlement of which Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon resettled in Babylon, and returned unto Jerusalem and Judah, every man into his city.
EZR 2:2 The ones that came with Zerubbabel - Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of men of the people of Israel.
EZR 2:3 Sons of Parosh - two thousand a hundred seventy-two.
EZR 2:4 Sons of Shephatiah - three hundred seventy-two.
EZR 2:5 Sons of Arah - seven hundred seventy-five.
EZR 2:6 Sons of Pahath-moab to the sons of Jeshua and Joab - two thousand eight hundred twelve.
EZR 2:7 Sons of Elam - a thousand two hundred fifty-four.
EZR 2:8 Sons of Zattu - nine hundred forty-five.
EZR 2:9 Sons of Zaccai - seven hundred sixty.
EZR 2:10 Sons of Bani - six hundred forty-two.
EZR 2:11 Sons of Bebai - six hundred twenty-three.
EZR 2:12 Sons of Azgad - a thousand two hundred twenty-two.
EZR 2:13 Sons of Adonikam - six hundred sixty-six.
EZR 2:14 Sons of Bigvai - two thousand fifty-six.
EZR 2:15 Sons of Adin - four hundred fifty-four.
EZR 2:16 Sons of Ater to Hezekiah - ninety-eight.
EZR 2:17 Sons of Bezai - three hundred twenty-three.
EZR 2:18 Sons of Jorah - a hundred twelve.
EZR 2:19 Sons of Hashum - two hundred twenty-three.
EZR 2:20 Sons of Gibbar - ninety-five.
EZR 2:21 Sons of Beth-lehem - a hundred twenty-three.
EZR 2:22 Sons of Netophah - fifty-six.
EZR 2:23 Sons Anathoth - a hundred twenty-eight.
EZR 2:24 Sons of Azmaveth - forty-two.
EZR 2:25 Sons of Kirjath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth - seven hundred forty-three.
EZR 2:26 Sons of Ramah and Gaba - six hundred twenty-one.
EZR 2:27 The men of Michmas - a hundred twenty-two.
EZR 2:28 The men of Beth-el, and Ai - two hundred twenty-three.
EZR 2:29 The sons of Nebo - fifty-two.
EZR 2:30 The sons of Magbish - a hundred fifty-six.
EZR 2:31 Sons of the other Elam - a thousand two hundred fifty-four.
EZR 2:32 Sons of Harim - three hundred twenty.
EZR 2:33 Sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono - seven hundred twenty-five.
EZR 2:34 Sons of Jericho - three hundred forty-five.
EZR 2:35 Sons of Senaah - three thousand six hundred thirty.
EZR 2:36 And the priests - sons of Jedaiah, to the house of Jeshua - nine hundred seventy-three.
EZR 2:37 Sons of Immer - a thousand fifty-two.
EZR 2:38 Sons of Pashur - a thousand two hundred forty-seven.
EZR 2:39 Sons of Harim - a thousand seventeen.
EZR 2:40 And the Levites - sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, to the sons of Hodaviah - seventy-four.
EZR 2:41 The singers - sons of Asaph - a hundred twenty-eight.
EZR 2:42 The sons of the gatekeepers - sons of Shallum, sons of Ater, sons of Telmon, sons of Akkub, sons of Hatita, sons of Shobai, in all - a hundred thirty-nine.
EZR 2:43 The Nethinim - sons of Ziha, sons of Hasupha, sons of Tabaoth,
EZR 2:44 sons of Keros, sons of Siaha, sons of Padon,
EZR 2:45 sons of Lebanah, sons of Hagabah, sons of Akkub,
EZR 2:46 sons of Hagab, sons of Shalmai, sons of Hanan,
EZR 2:47 sons of Giddel, sons of Gahar, sons of Reaiah,
EZR 2:48 sons of Rezin, sons of Nekoda, sons of Gazzam,
EZR 2:49 sons of Uzza, sons of Paseah, sons of Besai,
EZR 2:50 sons of Asnah sons of Mehunim, sons of Nephusim,
EZR 2:51 sons of Bakbuk, sons of Hakupha, sons of Harhur,
EZR 2:52 sons of Bazluth, sons of Mehida, sons of Harsha,
EZR 2:53 sons of Barkos, sons of Sisera, sons of Thamah,
EZR 2:54 sons of Neziah, sons of Hatipha,
EZR 2:55 sons of the servants of Solomon - sons of Sotai, sons of Sophereth, sons of Peruda,
EZR 2:56 sons of Jaalah, sons of Darkon, sons of Giddel,
EZR 2:57 sons of Shephatiah, sons of Hattil, sons of Pochereth, sons of Zebaim, sons of Ami.
EZR 2:58 All the Nethinim, and the sons of servants of Solomon - three hundred ninety-two.
EZR 2:59 And these were the ones ascending from Tel-melah, Tel-harsa, Cherub, Addan, Immer; and they were not able to report the house of their family, and their seed, if they are of Israel.
EZR 2:60 The sons of Delaiah, sons of Tobiah, sons of Nekoda - six hundred fifty-two.
EZR 2:61 And of the sons of the priests - sons of Habaiah, sons of Koz, sons of Barzillai who took from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite a wife, and was called by their record.
EZR 2:62 These are which sought their record seeking descent, and they found not, and were thrust out from the priesthood.
EZR 2:63 And Tirshatha spoke to them to not eat from the holy of the holies until a priest should rise up with the giving light and the perfections.
EZR 2:64 And all the assembly together were as four ten thousand, two thousand, three hundred, sixty,
EZR 2:65 separate from their menservants and their maidservants; these were - seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and with them male singers and female singers - two hundred;
EZR 2:66 their horses - seven hundred thirty-six; their mules - two hundred forty-five;
EZR 2:67 their camels - four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys - six thousand seven hundred twenty.
EZR 2:68 And from the rulers of the families in their entering into the house of the LORD in Jerusalem, were willing concerning the house of God, to establish it for its preparation.
EZR 2:69 According to their power they gave for the treasury for the work; gold drachmas - six ten thousands and a thousand; and silver minas - five thousand; and garments for the priests - a hundred.
EZR 2:70 And these stayed (the priests, and the Levites, and the ones from the people, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the Nethinim) in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.
EZR 3:1 And the seventh month came, and the sons of Israel were in their cities, and the people were brought together as one man unto Jerusalem.
EZR 3:2 And Jeshua the son of Jozadak rose up, and his brothers the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brothers, and built the altar of the God of Israel, to offer upon it whole burnt offerings as written in the law of Moses the man of God.
EZR 3:3 And they prepared the altar upon its preparation place; but terror was upon them because of the peoples of the lands. And they brougnt unto it the whole burnt offerings to the LORD in the morning and in the evening.
EZR 3:4 And they observed the holiday of the tents, according to the thing being written, and the whole burnt offerings day by day in number, according to the distinguishing manner, reckoning day by day for it.
EZR 3:5 And after this the perpetual whole burnt offering, and for the new moons, and for all holidays to the LORD were sanctified, and to every willing voluntary offering to the LORD.
EZR 3:6 On day one of the seventh month they began to offer whole burnt offerings to the LORD. But the house of the LORD was not laid of a foundation.
EZR 3:7 And they gave money to the quarriers, and to the fabricators; and food, and drink, and olive oil to the Sidonians, and to the Tyrians, to bring forth wood of cedars from Lebanon by sea to Joppa, by the grant of Cyrus king of the Persians, concerning this.
EZR 3:8 And in the second year of their coming into the house of the LORD God in Jerusalem, in the second month, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel began, and with Jeshua the son of Jozadek, and the rest of their brothers, the priests, and the Levites, and all the ones coming from the captivity into Jerusalem; that they established the Levites from twenty years and up, to bring success upon the ones doing the works in the house of the LORD.
EZR 3:9 And Jeshua stood with his sons and his brothers, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, over the ones doing the works in the house of God; the sons of Henadad, their sons and their brothers the Levites.
EZR 3:10 And the ones building laid a foundation to build the house of the LORD, and the priests stood being robed with trumpets, and the Levites, the sons of Asaph, with cymbals, to praise the LORD, by the hands of David king of Israel.
EZR 3:11 And they answered in praise and confession to the LORD, saying, That he is good, that into the eon is his mercy upon Israel. And all the people shouted a great voice, in the praising the LORD, at the groundwork of the house of the LORD.
EZR 3:12 And many from the priests, and the Levites, and rulers of the families, the elders who beheld the first house on its groundwork, and then this house, with their eyes, wept a great sound, and many with a shout with gladness to raise up high a sound.
EZR 3:13 And the people were not recognizing the sound of the cheering of gladness from the sound of the weeping of the people; for the people cried out with a great sound, and the voice was heard even from far off.
EZR 4:1 And the ones afflicting Judah and Benjamin heard that the sons of the resettlement were building a house to the LORD God of Israel.
EZR 4:2 And they approached to Zerubbabel, and to the rulers of the families, and said to them, We should build with you, for as you, we also inquire to your God; and to him we sacrifice from the days of Esar-haddon king of Assyria, the one bringing us here.
EZR 4:3 And Zerubbabel said to them, and Jeshua, and the rest of the rulers of the families of Israel, It is not for us and you to build a house to our God, for we ourselves together shall build to the LORD God of Israel, as Cyrus the king of the Persians gave charge to us.
EZR 4:4 And the people of the land were enfeebling the hands of the people of Judah, and impeded them to build.
EZR 4:5 And they were hiring against them counselors to efface their counsel all the days of Cyrus king of the Persians, and unto the kingdom of Darius the king of the Persians.
EZR 4:6 And in the kingdom of Ahasuerus, and in the beginning of his kingdom, they wrote a letter against the ones living in Judah and Jerusalem.
EZR 4:7 And in the days of Artaxerxes Mithridath wrote in peace, and Tabeel, with the rest of his fellow-servants, to Artaxerxes king of the Persians, saying, The tribute-gatherer wrote the writing in Syrian, and it was being translated.
EZR 4:8 Rehum the master, and Shimshai the scribe, wrote one letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king, saying,
EZR 4:9 Thus Rehum the master judges, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of our fellow-servants, the Dinaites, Apharsathchites, Tarpelites, Apharsites, Archevites, Babylonians, Susanchites, Dehavites, Elamites,
EZR 4:10 and the rest of the nations whom the great and the esteemed Asnapper resettled, and settled them in the cities of Samaria, and the rest on the other side of the river.
EZR 4:11 This is the disposition of the letter which they sent to him - To Artaxerxes the king. By your servants the men on the other side of the river.
EZR 4:12 And now let it be made known to the king that the Jews ascending from you to us came into Jerusalem, the defecting and wicked city, which they are building; and the walls of it are being readied, and the foundations of it they elevated.
EZR 4:13 Now then let it be made known to the king, that, if that city should be rebuilt, and the walls of it should be readied, that tributes, toll, and custom they shall not give, and this does evil to kings!
EZR 4:14 And now we salted not as salt of the temple, and it is not allowed for us to behold an indecency concerning the king; on account of this we sent forth and made known to the king,
EZR 4:15 that it should be examined in the book of memoirs of your fathers. And you shall find in the book of the memorial, and shall know that that city is a defecting city, and one doing evil to kings; and in the midst of it from the time of the eon it is for places and flights for your runaway bondmen. On account of this this city was made desolate.
EZR 4:16 We make known then ourselves to the king, that if that city should be built, and its walls should be readied for these things, there shall not be to you a part on the other side of the river.
EZR 4:17 And this then is the word which the king sent to Rehum the master, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their fellow-servants living in Samaria, and the rest on the other side of the river, saying, Peace. And says the king,
EZR 4:18 The tribute-gatherer whom you sent to us was called before me.
EZR 4:19 And by me was rendered a decree, and they examined and it was found that that city from days of the eon lifts itself up against kings, and defections and exiles take place in it.
EZR 4:20 And strong kings were over Jerusalem, prevailing over all of the other side of the river. And both tributes and tolls and customs were given to them.
EZR 4:21 And now establish a decree for those men to cease work, that that city shall not be built up any more!
EZR 4:22 So that of the decree you were guarding you not be remiss to do concerning this, lest at any time an extinction of power should be multiplied for an evil deed to happen to kings.
EZR 4:23 Then the tribute-gatherer of king Artaxerxes read in the presence of Rehum the master, and Shimshai the scribe, and his fellow-servants. And they went with diligence unto Jerusalem and to Judah, and caused them to cease work with horses and a force.
EZR 4:24 Then the work of the house of God was idle, in Jerusalem. And it was idle until the second year of the kingdom of Darius king of Persia.
EZR 5:1 And Haggai the prophet prophesied, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, a prophecy over the Jews in Judah and in Jerusalem, in the name of the God of Israel, over them.
EZR 5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua son of Jozadak, and they began to build the house of God in Jerusalem; and with them were the prophets of God to help them.
EZR 5:3 At that same time there came upon them Tatnai chief ruler on the other side of the river, and Shethar-boznai, and their fellow-servants, and of such he said to them, Who ordained to you a decree to build this house, and to ready this expense?
EZR 5:4 Then they said to them, What are the names of the men building this city?
EZR 5:5 But the eyes of God became upon the captivity of Judah, and they did not cause them to cease work until the decree was carried to Darius. And then it was given to the tribute-gatherer concerning this.
EZR 5:6 The explanation by letter which was sent by Tatnai the chief ruler on the other side of the river, and Shethar-boznai, and their fellow-servants - Apharsachites on the other side of the river, to Darius the king.
EZR 5:7 They sent a word to him, and thus was written in it, To Darius the king, all peace.
EZR 5:8 Let it be known to the king! That we went into Judea, the place for the house of the great God, and it is being built with the choice stones, and timber is inserted in the walls, and that work is fittingly done, and the way is prospering in their hands.
EZR 5:9 Then we asked those elders, and thus we said to them, Who rendered to you a decree to build this house, and the bestowing of this expense to ready it?
EZR 5:10 And we asked of them their names to make known to you, so as to write to you the names of the men of their rulers.
EZR 5:11 And such a word they answered to us, saying to us, We are menservants of the God of the heaven and of the earth, and we are building the house which was built many years before this, and a great king of Israel built it, and readied it for themselves.
EZR 5:12 But from when our fathers provoked to anger the God of heaven, he gave them into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, and this house he caused to rest, and the people he resettled in Babylon.
EZR 5:13 But in the first year of Cyrus the king of the Babylonians, Cyrus the king rendered a decree to build this house of God.
EZR 5:14 And the items of the house of God of gold and silver, which Nebuchadnezzar brought forth from the house in Jerusalem, and carried them into the temple of the king in Babylon, Cyrus the king brought them forth from the temple in Babylon, and gave them to Sheshbazzar the treasurer - to the one over the treasury.
EZR 5:15 And he said to him, These items take, and go put them in the house in Jerusalem! And the house of God - let it be built in its place!
EZR 5:16 Then that Sheshbazzar came and put down the foundations of the house of God in Jerusalem. And from then until now it is being built, and was not finished.
EZR 5:17 And now if for the king it seems good, let it be overseen in the house of the treasury of the king there in Babylon, so as you should know that if from king Cyrus a decree was rendered to build the house of God, that one in Jerusalem! And the king knowing concerning this, let him send forth a reply to us!
EZR 6:1 Then Darius the king rendered a decree, and examined in the libraries, of which the treasuries were situated there in Babylon.
EZR 6:2 And there was found in Achmetha the city, in the palace of the Mede city, one chapter of a scroll, and this was the record written in it.
EZR 6:3 In the first year of king Cyrus, Cyrus the king rendered a decree concerning the house of God in Jerusalem, saying, Let the house be built, and the place of which they sacrifice the sacrifices! And set the foundations, the height of sixty cubits, and the width of it sixty cubits,
EZR 6:4 and three layers of fortified stones, and one layer of new timbers! And the expense shall be granted out of the house of the king.
EZR 6:5 And the items of the house of God of gold and silver, which Nebuchadnezzar brought forth from the house in Jerusalem, and carried into Babylon, even let them be given, and brought forth into the temple in Jerusalem, unto their place, and be put in the house of God!
EZR 6:6 Now then Tatnai, commandant of the other side of the river, Shethar-boznai, and his fellow-servants the Apharsachites on the other side of the river, be being far from there.
EZR 6:7 And now leave alone the work of the house of God, and the ones guiding of the Jews, and the elders of the Jews. Let them build that house of God upon its place!
EZR 6:8 And by me was rendered a decree to do through the elders of those Jews to build that house of God, even from the subsistence of the king, of the tributes on the other side of the river, that carefully an expense be given to those men to not cease work!
EZR 6:9 And what ever deficiency - both male offspring of oxen, and rams, and lambs for whole burnt offerings to the God of the heaven, and wheat, salt, wine, olive oil, according to the word of the priests in Jerusalem, let be given to them day by day unalterable what ever they should ask!
EZR 6:10 That there might be a pleasant aroma offering to the God of the heaven, and they might pray for the life of the king, and the ones of his sons.
EZR 6:11 And from me was rendered a decree, that every man who ever changes this word the timber of his house shall be demolished, and a stake being straight up he shall be pitched upon it, and his house will be for ravaging.
EZR 6:12 And the God of whom encamps with his name there, he shall eradicate every king and people who should stretch out his hand to change and remove from view the house of God, that one in Jerusalem. I Darius rendered the decree. Carefully let it become!
EZR 6:13 Then Tatnai, the chief ruler on the other side of the river, and Shethar-boznai, and his fellow-servants, in so far as Darius the king sent, thus they did carefully.
EZR 6:14 And the elders of the Jews built, and prospered at the prophecy of Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah son of Iddo. And they rebuilt, and made ready by the decree of the God of Israel, and by the decree of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes kings of Persia.
EZR 6:15 And they finished this house by the third day of the month Adar, which is in the sixth year of the kingship of Darius the king.
EZR 6:16 And they made, (the sons of Israel, the priests and the Levites, and the rest of the sons of the resettlement), a holiday of rededication of the house of God with gladness.
EZR 6:17 And they offered for the holiday of rededication of this house of God; calves - a hundred; rams - two hundred; lambs - four hundred; winter yearlings of the goats for a sin offering for all Israel - twelve, for the number of the tribes of Israel.
EZR 6:18 And they established the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in their distributions, for service of the house of God in Jerusalem, according to the writing of the book of Moses.
EZR 6:19 And the sons of the resettlement observed the passover on the fourteenth of the first month.
EZR 6:20 For the priests and the Levites were purified - all were clean as one man. And they slew the passover for all the sons of the resettlement, and for their brothers the priests, and for themselves.
EZR 6:21 And the sons of Israel ate the passover - the ones coming forth from the resettlement, and every one separating of the uncleanness of the nations of the land that was theirs to inquire of the LORD God of Israel.
EZR 6:22 And they observed the holiday of the unleavened breads seven days with gladness. For the LORD gladdened them, and turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, to fortify their hands in the works of the house of the God of Israel.
EZR 7:1 And after these things, in the kingdom of Artaxerxes king of the Persians, there ascended Ezra the son of Seraiah, son of Azariah, son of Hilkiah,
EZR 7:2 son of Shallum, son of Zadok, son of Ahitub,
EZR 7:3 son of Amariah, son of Azariah, son of Meraioth,
EZR 7:4 son of Zerahiah, son of Uzzi, son of Bukki,
EZR 7:5 son of Abishua, son of Phinehas, son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the foremost priest.
EZR 7:6 This Ezra ascended from out of Babylon; and he was a quick skilled scribe. in the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel gave. And the king gave to him - for the hand of the LORD his God was upon him in all things which he sought.
EZR 7:7 And there ascended some from the sons of Israel, and from the priests, and from the Levites, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the Nethinim, to Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.
EZR 7:8 And they came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, this was the seventh year of the king.
EZR 7:9 For on day one of the first month he founded the expedition from Babylon, and during the first day of the fifth month he came into Jerusalem, for the hand of his God was good upon him.
EZR 7:10 For Ezra prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and to do, and to teach in Israel the orders and judgments.
EZR 7:11 And this is the copy of the edict which Artaxerxes the king gave to Ezra the priest, to the scribe, of the scroll of the words of the commandments of the LORD, and of his orders unto Israel.
EZR 7:12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, scribe of the law of the God of heaven. Let the matter and the answer be initiated.
EZR 7:13 From me was rendered a decree that all the ones willing in my kingdom from the people of Israel, and priests, and Levites, to go to Jerusalem, with you let them go!
EZR 7:14 In so far as from in front of the king, and of his seven counselors, one should be sent to look about over Judea and Jerusalem, and in the law of their God in your hand;
EZR 7:15 to carry away even silver and gold for the house of the LORD, which the king and the counselors were willing to give to the God of Israel inhabiting in Jerusalem.
EZR 7:16 And all the silver and gold, whatever you should find in every place of Babylon, let it be offered with a voluntary offering of the people, and of the priests, willing to give for the house of God in Jerusalem.
EZR 7:17 And every one going you arrange this readily by this scroll - calves, rams, lambs, and their sacrifice offerings, and their libation offerings! And you shall offer them upon the altar of the house of your God in Jerusalem.
EZR 7:18 And if anything should seem good with you and your brothers, with the rest of the silver and gold to do, as it pleases your God, you do it!
EZR 7:19 And the items given to you for the ministration of the house of God, you deliver before God in Jerusalem!
EZR 7:20 And for the rest of the need of the house of your God, what ever should be apparent to you to give, you shall give from the houses of the king's treasury.
EZR 7:21 I, Artaxerxes the king, established a decree to all the treasuries on the other side of the river, that all what ever he should ask of you (Ezra the priest and scribe of the law of the God of heaven) readily, let it become so!
EZR 7:22 Unto a hundred talents of silver, and unto a hundred cors of wheat, and unto a hundred baths of wine, and unto a hundred baths of olive oil, and salt of which the amount is not on record.
EZR 7:23 All what is in the decree of the God of the heaven, let it become in the house of the God of the heaven! Take heed, lest any make an attempt against the house of the God of the heaven, lest at any time anger should happen upon the kingdom of the king, and his sons!
EZR 7:24 And to you, let it be made known in respect to all the priests, and to the Levites, singers, gatekeepers, Nethinim, and ministers of the house of God, that this tribute, and toll, and impost, you do not have authority to assign upon them!
EZR 7:25 And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of God, the wisdom in your hand, ordain scribes and judges, that they might judge all the people on the other side of the river, to all the ones knowing the laws of your God! And to the ones not knowing you shall make it known.
EZR 7:26 And all, who ever might not be observing the law of God, and the law of the king diligently, the judgment will be taken upon him, whether for death, whether to root him out, or to instruct, or to penalize the subsistance, or for prison to lock up.
EZR 7:27 Blessed be the LORD God of our fathers, who put it in the heart of the king thus, to glorify the house of the LORD in Jerusalem.
EZR 7:28 And upon me mercy leaned in the eyes of the king, and his counselors, and all the rulers of the king of the mighty ones. And I was strengthened by the good hand of the LORD my God upon me, and I gathered from Israel rulers to ascend with me.
EZR 8:1 And these are the rulers of their families, and the genealogy of the ones ascending with me in the kingdom of Artaxerxes the king of Babylon.
EZR 8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom; of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel; of the sons of David, Hattush;
EZR 8:3 of the sons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh, Zechariah, and the males with him having traced descent - a hundred and fifty.
EZR 8:4 Of the sons Pahath-moab; Elihoenai son of Zerahiah, and with him two hundred males.
EZR 8:5 Of the sons Shechaniah, son Jahaziel, and with him three hundred males.
EZR 8:6 Of the sons of Adin; Ebed son of Jonathan, and with him fifty males.
EZR 8:7 Of the sons of Elam; Jeshaiah son of Athaliah, and with him seventy males.
EZR 8:8 Of the sons of Shephatiah; Zebadiah son of Michael, and with him eighty males.
EZR 8:9 Of the sons of Joab; Obadiah son of Jehiel, and with him two hundred eighteen males.
EZR 8:10 From the sons of Shelomith; son of Josiphiah, and with him a hundred sixty males.
EZR 8:11 From the sons of Bebai; Zechariah son of Bebai, and with him twenty-eight males.
EZR 8:12 From the sons of Azgad; Johanan son of Hakkatan, and with him, a hundred ten males.
EZR 8:13 Of the sons of Adonikam last, and these are the names of them; Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them sixty males.
EZR 8:14 Of the sons of Bigvai; Uthai and Zabbud, and with them seventy males.
EZR 8:15 And I gathered them to the river coming to Ahava; and we camped there three days. And I perceived among the people, and among the priests, there were not any from the sons of Levi found there.
EZR 8:16 And I sent to Eleazar, to Ariel, to Shemaiah, and to Elnathan, and to Jarib to Elnatham, to Nathan, to Zechariah, to Meshullam - rulers; to Joiarib, and to Elnathan, ones perceiving.
EZR 8:17 And I gave charge to them to Iddo the ruler of Casiphia of the place. And I put in their mouths words to speak to Iddo, and to their brothers of the Nethinim, of the ones with the money of the place Casiphia, to bring to us ministers and singers into the house of our God.
EZR 8:18 And they came to us as the good hand of our God was upon us, with a discerning man from the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi of Israel; and Sherebiah, and his sons, and his brothers - eighteen;
EZR 8:19 and Hashabiah, and Jeshaiah from the sons of Merari, his brothers and his sons - twenty.
EZR 8:20 And from the Nethinim, whom David appointed and the rulers for service of the Levites - two hundred twenty Nethinim. All these were named.
EZR 8:21 And I called there a fast at the river Ahava, to humble ourselves before our God, to seek by him a straight way for us, and for our children, and for all our property.
EZR 8:22 For I was ashamed to ask from the king for a force and horsemen to deliver us from the enemy in the way, for we said to the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all the ones seeking him for good; and his might and his rage is upon all the ones abandoning him.
EZR 8:23 And we fasted and sought from our God concerning this, and he heeded us.
EZR 8:24 And I separated twelve of the rulers of the priests; to Sherebiah, to Hashabiah, and with them from their brothers - ten.
EZR 8:25 And I set before them the silver, and the gold, and the items of the first-fruit of the house of our God which the king separated in dedication and his counselors, and his rulers, and all the ones being found of Israel.
EZR 8:26 And I set in their hands silver - six hundred fifty talents, and vessels made of silver - a hundred, and talents of gold - a hundred;
EZR 8:27 and twenty bowls of gold of a thousand drachmas, and vessels of brass, shining, good quality, diverse, desirable as gold.
EZR 8:28 And I said to them, You are holy to the LORD God; and the holy vessels, and the silver, and the gold are a voluntary offering to the LORD God of our fathers.
EZR 8:29 Be awake, and give heed! until you set them before the rulers of the priests and the Levites, and rulers of the families of Israel, in Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the LORD.
EZR 8:30 And the priests and the Levites took the weight of the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, to bring them into Jerusalem into the house of our God.
EZR 8:31 And we lifted away from the river Ahava on the twelfth of the first month, to come unto Jerusalem. And the hand of our God was upon us, and he rescued us from the hand of the enemy, and the warlike people along the way.
EZR 8:32 And we came into Jerusalem, and stayed there three days.
EZR 8:33 And on the fourth day we set the silver and the gold and the vessels in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth son of Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar son of Phinehas; and with them was Jozabad son of Jeshua, and Noadiah son of Binnui - the Levites.
EZR 8:34 By number and by weight all were measured. And all the weight was written down at that time.
EZR 8:35 And the ones coming out of the captivity, sons of the sojourn, brought whole burnt offerings to the God of Israel; calves - twelve for all Israel, rams - ninety-six, lambs - seventy-seven, winter yearlings of the goats for the sin offering - twelve. The whole amount was for whole burnt offerings to the LORD.
EZR 8:36 And they gave the mandate of the king to the administrators of the king, and chief rulers on the other side of the river. And they glorified the people, and the house of God.
EZR 9:1 And as these things were finished, the rulers approached to me, saying, The people of Israel did not separate, and the priests and the Levites, from the peoples of the lands in their abominations - of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Jebusite, the Ammonite, the Moabite, and the Moserite, and the Amorite.
EZR 9:2 For they took of their daughters to themselves, and to their sons, and the holy seed mixed together among the peoples of the lands; even by the hand of the rulers and of the commandants in this breach-of-contract in rule.
EZR 9:3 And as I heard this word, I tore my garments and my undergarment, and was agitated, and plucked the hair of my head, and of my beard, and sat down for calming.
EZR 9:4 And there gathered to me everyone trembling at the word of the God of Israel concerning the breach-of-contract of the resettlement. And I was sitting calming myself until the evening sacrifice.
EZR 9:5 And during the evening sacrifice I rose up from my humiliation; and in my tearing my garments, and my undergarment, that I leaned upon my knees, and spread forth my hands to the LORD my God.
EZR 9:6 And I said, O LORD, I am ashamed and feel shame to raise up, O my God, my face to you; for our lawlessnesses multiplied over our head, and our trespasses are magnified unto the heaven.
EZR 9:7 From the days of our fathers we are in great trespass until this day. And in our lawless deeds we were delivered up, and our kings, and our priests, into the hand of the kings of the nations, by broadsword, and into captivity, and in seizure, and in shame of our face, as this day.
EZR 9:8 And now as the LORD our God was lenient to us a little, to leave us for deliverance, and to give to us reliance in the place of his sanctuary, to enlighten our eyes, and to give a little restoration to life in our servitude,
EZR 9:9 for we are servants, and in our servitude the LORD our God did not abandon us, and leaned mercy towards us before the kings of the Persians, to give us a restoring to life, for them to exalt the house of our God, and to reestablish its deserted places, and to give to us a fence in Judah and Jerusalem,
EZR 9:10 that now, what should we say, O our God, after this? For we abandoned your commandments,
EZR 9:11 which you gave to us by the hand of your servants the prophets, saying, The land into which you enter there to inherit it is a land in motion by the removal of the peoples of the lands of their abominations which they filled it from mouth to mouth gate to gate. in their uncleannesses.
EZR 9:12 And now, do not give your daughters to their sons, and of their daughters do not take to your sons; and do not require their peace and their good will into the eon, so as you should grow in strength, and should eat the good of the land, and allot it to your sons unto the eon!
EZR 9:13 And after all the things coming upon us by our actions in the wicked things, and by our great trespasses, (that you our God lightened our lawless deeds, and gave to us deliverance;)
EZR 9:14 for we turned to efface your commandments, and allied by marriage to the peoples of the these lands, you should not be provoked by us unto consumption, for their to not be one left over and preserved.
EZR 9:15 O LORD God of Israel, You are just, for we were left being preserved as in this day. Behold, we all are before you in our trespasses; for there is not a standing before you in this.
EZR 10:1 And as Ezra prayed. And as he confessed weeping and falling before the house of God, there came together to him from Israel an exceedingly vast assembly, of men and women and young people; for the people wept a great weeping.
EZR 10:2 And answered one Shechaniah son of Jehiel, from the sons of Elam, and said to Ezra, We broke contract with our God, and settled with alien wives from the peoples of the land; and now there is hope to Israel for this thing.
EZR 10:3 And now, we should ordain a covenant with our God to lead out all the wives and the ones being born from them, according to counsel of the LORD, and of the ones trembling in the commandments of our God; and let it be according to the law!
EZR 10:4 Rise up, for the matter concerns you, and we are with you - strengthen and do!
EZR 10:5 And Ezra rose up, and bound by an oath the rulers of the priests, and Levites, and all Israel, to do according to this word. And they swore by an oath.
EZR 10:6 And Ezra rose up from in front of the house of God, and went into the treasury of Johanan son of Eliashib, and lodged there, and did not eat bread, and did not drink water, for he mourned over the breach-of-contract by the resettlement.
EZR 10:7 And they carried about a report in Judah and in Jerusalem to all the sons of the resettlement, to gather together in Jerusalem, saying,
EZR 10:8 Every one who ever should not come for three days, according to the counsel of the rulers and of the elders, all his substance shall be devoted to consumption, and he shall be separated from the assembly of the resettlement.
EZR 10:9 And all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered together in Jerusalem for the three days - this was the ninth month. On the twentieth of the month all the people sat in the square of the house of God in trembling concerning the matter, and because of the distress.
EZR 10:10 And Ezra the priest rose up and said to them, You have broken contract and settled with alien wives, to add to the trespass of Israel.
EZR 10:11 And now, give praise to the LORD God of our fathers, and do the pleasing thing before him, and draw apart from the peoples of the land, and from the alien wives!
EZR 10:12 And answered all the assembly with a great voice, and said, According to your words which you said, thus we will do.
EZR 10:13 But the people are vast, and it is the time of winter, and there is not ability to stand outside, and the work is not for one day, nor two; for we multiplied the wrong in this matter.
EZR 10:14 Let indeed our rulers stand in every assembly, and to all the ones in our cities who settled with alien wives, let come at arranged times, and with them the elders city by city, and judges, to turn the anger of the rage of our God from us, on account of this matter!
EZR 10:15 Only Jonathan son of Asahel and Jahaziah son of Tikvah were with me; and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite assisted them.
EZR 10:16 And the sons of the resettlement did thus. And Ezra the priest drew apart, and the men rulers of the families of the households, and all by names, for they returned on day one of the tenth month to inquire of the matter.
EZR 10:17 And they finished with questioning all the men settling with alien wives until day one of the first month.
EZR 10:18 And there were found of the sons of the priests, the ones settling with alien wives, some of the sons of Jeshua son of Jozadak, and of his brothers - Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.
EZR 10:19 And they gave their hand in pledge to bring forth their own wives; and they gave trespass offerings - a ram of the sheep for their trespass offering.
EZR 10:20 And of the sons of Immer - Hanani and Zebadiah.
EZR 10:21 And of the sons of Harim - Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.
EZR 10:22 And of the sons of Phasur - Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, and Nathaneel, and Jozabad and Elasah.
EZR 10:23 And of the Levites - Jozabad, and Shemei, and Kelaiah (he is Kelita,) and Pethahiah, and Judah, and Eliezer.
EZR 10:24 And of the singers - Eliashib. And of the gatekeepers - Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.
EZR 10:25 And of Israel, of the sons of Parosh - Ramiah, and Jeziah, and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.
EZR 10:26 And of the sons of Elam - Mattaniah, and Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Eliah.
EZR 10:27 And of the sons of Zattu - Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
EZR 10:28 And of the sons of Bebai - Jehohanan, and Hananiah, and Zabbai, and Athlai.
EZR 10:29 And of the sons of Bani - Meshullam, and Malluch, and Adaiah, and Jashub, and Sheal, and Ramoth.
EZR 10:30 And of the sons Pahath-moab - Adna, and Chelal, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Matthaniah, and Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.
EZR 10:31 And of the sons of Harim - Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
EZR 10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.
EZR 10:33 And of the sons of Hashum - Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.
EZR 10:34 And of the sons of Bani - Maadai, Amram, and Uel,
EZR 10:35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Chelluh,
EZR 10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
EZR 10:37 Mattaniah, and Mattenai.
EZR 10:38 And so did the sons of Bani and the sons of Shimei,
EZR 10:39 and Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,
EZR 10:40 and Machnadebai, and Sharai, and Shashai
EZR 10:41 Azareel, and Shelemiah, and Shemariah,
EZR 10:42 and Shallum, and Amariah, and Joseph.
EZR 10:43 From the sons of Nebo - Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau, Joel, and Benaiah.
EZR 10:44 All these took alien wives. And also there are of them sons of the wives in which they engendered of them.
NEH 1:1 The words of Nehemiah son of Hachaliah. And it came to pass in the month of Chisleu, of the twentieth year, that I was in Susa Abira.
NEH 1:2 And there came Hanani one of my brothers, he and men of Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews having survived, who were left behind from the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem.
NEH 1:3 And they said to me, The ones remaining behind surviving from the captivity there in the place are among great wickedness, and in scorning; and the walls of Jerusalem are being demolished, and its gates were burnt by fire.
NEH 1:4 And it came to pass, in my hearing these words, I sat and wept and mourned for days, and I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven.
NEH 1:5 And I said, O indeed, O LORD God of the heaven, the strong and great and fearful one, guarding the covenant and the mercy to the ones loving him and guarding his commandments.
NEH 1:6 Let it be indeed your ear heeds, and your eyes open, to hear the prayer of your servant which I pray before you today's day and night, for the sons of Israel your servants! And I declare openly concerning the sins of the sons of Israel, in which we sinned against you - both I and the house of my father sinned.
NEH 1:7 In parting, we parted from you, and guarded not the commandments, and the orders, and the judgments which you gave charge to Moses your servant.
NEH 1:8 Remember indeed, the word which you gave charge to Moses your servant! saying, If You should break contract, I will disperse you among the peoples.
NEH 1:9 But if you should return to me, and should guard my commandments, and observe them; and if your dispersion might be unto the tip of the heaven, from there I will gather them, and I will bring them into the place which I chose to encamp my name there.
NEH 1:10 And they are your children and your people, whom you ransomed by your great power, and by your fortified hand.
NEH 1:11 Indeed, O LORD, let be your ear heeding to the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your children wanting to fear your name! And prosper the way indeed of your servant today, and give him for compassions before this man! And I was a wine server to the king.
NEH 2:1 And it came to pass in the month of Nisan, the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that the wine was before him. And I took the wine, and gave it to the king, and there was not another before him.
NEH 2:2 And the king said to me, Why is your face in a sorry state, and you are not content? For is this not unless there is a sorrowful heart. And I was afraid exceedingly much.
NEH 2:3 And I said to the king, O king, Live into the eon! Why should not my face be sorry, for the city, the house of the sepulchres of my fathers was made desolate, and its gates were devoured by fire?
NEH 2:4 And the king said to me, For what is this you seek? And I prayed to the LORD God of heaven.
NEH 2:5 And I said to the king, If it be upon the king for good, and if your servant shall seem good before you, so as to send him to Judah, to the city of the sepulchres of my fathers, then I will rebuild it.
NEH 2:6 And the king said to me, and his concubine sitting next to him, For how long will you be going, and when will you return? And it was good before the king. And he sent me, and I gave to him a confirmation.
NEH 2:7 And I said to the king, If it be upon the king for good, let him give to me letters to the chief rulers on the other side of the river! So as to allow me to pass until I come unto Judah;
NEH 2:8 and a letter to Asaph the keeper of the garden, which is to the king, so as to give to me wood to roof the gates of the palace of the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the house, for which I shall enter unto it. And the king gave to me by the good hand of God upon me.
NEH 2:9 And I came to the chief rulers on the other side of the river, and gave to them the letters of the king. And the king sent with me chiefs of the force, and horsemen.
NEH 2:10 And Sanballat the Horonite heard of it, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and it was a bad thing to them that it happened. And they were grieved that a man comes to seek good to the sons of Israel.
NEH 2:11 And I came unto Jerusalem, and I was there three days.
NEH 2:12 And I rose up at night, I and a few men with me. And I reported not to a man, for God put it into my heart to do this with Jerusalem. And there is not a beast with me, except the beast which I mounted upon it.
NEH 2:13 And I went forth through the gate of Gai at night to the mouth of the spring of the dragon, and to the dung gate. And I was studying the walls of Jerusalem having been torn down, and her gates having been consumed by fire.
NEH 2:14 And I went by the gate of the fountain, and into the pool of the king. And there was not a place for the beast underneath me to pass.
NEH 2:15 And I was ascending by the rushing stream at night, and was studying the wall, and was at the gate of the ravine, and I returned.
NEH 2:16 And the ones guarding did not know why I went, and what I was doing. And to the Jews, and to the priests, and to the important ones, and to the commandants, and to the rest of the ones doing the works until then, I reported not.
NEH 2:17 Then I said to them, You see this wickedness in which we are in it, how Jerusalem is desolate, and its gates were given to fire. Come, and let us build throughout the wall of Jerusalem, and we shall not be any longer for scorn!
NEH 2:18 And I reported to them the hand of God which is good upon me, and the words of the king which he spoke to me. And they said, Let us arise and build! And their hands were fortified for the good.
NEH 2:19 And Sanaballat the Horonite heard, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, and they laughed out loud at us, and disdained us. And they said, What is this thing which you are doing? or is it that you are defecting against the king?
NEH 2:20 And I returned to them a word, and said to them, The God of heaven, he shall prosper the way for us. And we his servants are pure, and we shall arise and build; and to you there is not a portion, nor judicial right, nor a memorial in Jerusalem.
NEH 3:1 And Eliashib the great priest rose up and his brothers the priests and constructed the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and set its doors; even unto the tower of the hundred they sanctified it, unto the tower of Hananeel.
NEH 3:2 And near his hands men of Jericho constructed. And near his hands Zaccur son of Imri constructed.
NEH 3:3 And the sons of Hassenaah constructed the fish gate - they roofed it, and set its doors, and its bolts, and its bars.
NEH 3:4 And near their hands Maremoth took control, the son of Urijah, son of Kos. And near their hand Meshullam took control, son of Barechiah, son of Meshezabeel. And near their hand Zadok took control, son of Baana.
NEH 3:5 And near their hand the Tekoites took control; but their strong ones did not insert their neck into a service of their Lord.
NEH 3:6 And the gate of Jasanah Jehoiada son of Paseah repaired, and Meshullam son of Bosodeiah - they roofed it, and set its doors, and its bolts, and its bars.
NEH 3:7 And near their hand Melatiah repaired, the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, unto the throne of the ruler of the other side of the river.
NEH 3:8 And near their hand Uzziel repaired, son of Harhaiah of the refiners. And near his hand Hananiah repaired, son of the perfumers, and they established Jerusalem unto the broad wall.
NEH 3:9 And near their hand Rephaiah repaired, son of Hur, ruler of half of the place round about Jerusalem.
NEH 3:10 And near their hand Jedaiah repaired, son of Harumaph, even against his house. And near his hand Hattush repaired, son of Hashabniah.
NEH 3:11 And Malchijah son of Harim and Hashub son of Pahath-moab repaired a second measured section, even unto the tower of the furnaces.
NEH 3:12 And near his hand Shallum repaired, son of Halohesh, ruler of half the place round about Jerusalem, he and his daughters.
NEH 3:13 The gate of the ravine Hanun repaired, and the ones dwelling at Zanoah - they constructed it, and set its doors, and its bolts, and its bars, and a thousand cubits of the wall unto the dung gate.
NEH 3:14 And the dung gate Malchiah repaired, son of Rechab, ruler of a place round about the house of Beth-haccerem, he and his sons. And they sheltered it, and set its doors, and its bolts, and its bars.
NEH 3:15 And the gate of the spring was safeguarded by Shallum son of Colhozeh, ruler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and roofed it, and set its doors, and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Siloah by the garden of the king, and unto the stairways going down from the city of David.
NEH 3:16 After him Nehemiah repaired, son of Azbuk, ruler of half the place round about Beth-zur, unto the garden of the burying-place of David, and unto the pool being built, and unto the house of the mighty ones.
NEH 3:17 After him the Levites repaired, Rehum son of Bani. Near his hand Hashabiah repaired, ruler of half the place round about Keilah, in the place round about him.
NEH 3:18 And after him their brothers repaired, Bavai son of Henadad, ruler of half the place round about Keilah.
NEH 3:19 And repaired near his hand Ezer son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, a second measured section right opposite the ascending unto the weapons site joining together at the corner.
NEH 3:20 After him Baruch repaired, son of Zabbai, a second measured section, from the corner unto the door of the house of Eliashib the great priest.
NEH 3:21 And after him Meramoth repaired, son of Uriah, son of Kos a second measured section, from the door of the house of Eliashib unto the completion of the house of Eliashib.
NEH 3:22 And after him the priests repaired, the men of Ekchechar.
NEH 3:23 And after him Benjamin repaired and Hashub over against their house. And after them Azariah repaired, son of Maaseiah, son of Ananiah, next to his house.
NEH 3:24 And after him Binnui repaired, son of Henadad, a second measured section, from the house of Azariah unto the corner, and unto the curve.
NEH 3:25 Palal, son of Uzai, was right opposite the corner, and the tower protruding from out of the house of the king, higher than the courtyard of the prison. And after him Pedaiah son of Parosh.
NEH 3:26 And the Nethinim were living in Ophel, unto before the garden of the water gate to the east, and the protruding tower.
NEH 3:27 And after him the Tekoites repaired a second measured section, right opposite the great protruding tower, and unto the wall of Ophel.
NEH 3:28 Upward of the gate of the horses the priests repaired, every man right opposite his own house.
NEH 3:29 And after him Zadok repaired, son of Immer, right opposite his own house. And after him Shemaiah repaired, son of Shechaniah, keeper of the east gate.
NEH 3:30 And after him Hananiah repaired, son of Shelemiah, and Hanun son of Zalaph the sixth son, a second measured section. And after him Meshullam repaired, son of Barechiah right opposite his treasury.
NEH 3:31 And after him Malchiah repaired, son of Sarefi, unto the house of the Nethinim, and of the traders, before the gate of Miphkad, and unto the ascending of the curve.
NEH 3:32 And between the ascending of the sheep gate the braziers and the traders repaired.
NEH 4:1 And it came to pass, when Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, that it was evil to him, and he was angry very much, and was laughing out loud over the Jews.
NEH 4:2 And he spoke before his brothers and the force of the Samaritans, and said, What do these Judahmen do - the Jews? Shall we not abandon them? Is it to sacrifice? Is it that they will be able to? And today, will they repair the stones with the embankment rubbish for being burnt?
NEH 4:3 And Tobiah the Ammonite was next to him, and he said to them, And even if they shall build, shall not a fox ascend and demolish their wall of stones?
NEH 4:4 Hear, O our God! For we became for sneering. And return their scorning upon their head, and give them for sneering in a land of captivity!
NEH 4:5 And you should not cover over their lawlessness, and their sin - may it not be wiped away from your face. For they provoked you to anger before the ones building.
NEH 4:6 And we built the wall; and all the wall was joined together unto the half of it. And the heart of the people became so as to construct.
NEH 4:7 And it came to pass, as Sanballat heard, and Tobiah, and the Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites, and that the development of the walls of Jerusalem ascended, that they began to block up the gaps, that it appeared exceedingly wicked to them.
NEH 4:8 And they gathered all together to come and to deploy against Jerusalem, and to do it for a delusion.
NEH 4:9 And we prayed to our God, and set an advance guard against them day and night, from before them.
NEH 4:10 And Judah said, The strength of the enemies is broken, and the dust is vast, and we shall not be able to build on the wall.
NEH 4:11 And the ones afflicting us said, They shall not know, and shall not see, until whenever we should come into the midst of them, and should murder them, and should cause the work to cease.
NEH 4:12 And it came to pass, as the Jews living next to them came, that they said to us, They ascend from out of all the places that you returned from us.
NEH 4:13 And I stood men in the lowermost place from behind the wall, in the protected places. And I stood the people according to peoples, with their broadswords, and their wooden spears, and their bows.
NEH 4:14 And I beheld, and rose up, and spoke to the important ones, and to the commandants, and to the rest of the people, saying, You should not fear from their face. You should remember our great and fearful God, and deploy for your brothers, your sons, and your daughters, and your wives, and your residences!
NEH 4:15 And it came to pass when our enemies heard that it was made known to us, that God effaced their counsel, that we all returned to the wall, every man to his work.
NEH 4:16 And it came to pass from that day, that half of the ones being arrayed did the work, and half of them resisted with lances, and shields, and bows, and chest plates - and the rulers were behind the whole house of Judah.
NEH 4:17 The ones building on the wall, and the ones lifting things on their shoulders, did his work armed in one hand, and with one hand held the arrow.
NEH 4:18 And the builders - a man had his broadsword tied upon his loin, and they built. And the one trumpeting by the horn was next to me.
NEH 4:19 And I said to the important ones, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, The work is spacious and vast, and we are dispersed upon the wall with each man far from his brother.
NEH 4:20 In the place where ever you should hear the sound of the horn, gather together there to us, and our God shall wage war for us.
NEH 4:21 And we were doing the work, and the half of us were holding the lances from the ascending of the dawn until the coming out of the stars.
NEH 4:22 And in that time I said to the people, Each one with his young one shall lodge in the midst of Jerusalem, and let an advance guard be to us in the night, and let the day be for work!
NEH 4:23 And I was there, and my brothers, and the young men; and the men of the advance guard were behind me; and there was not of us a man being stripped of his own garments with a man and his weapons into the water.
NEH 5:1 And the cry of the people and their wives was great against their brothers of the Jews.
NEH 5:2 And there were some saying, With our sons and with our daughters we are many; and we shall take grain, and shall eat and shall live.
NEH 5:3 And there are some saying, Our fields, and our vineyards, and our houses we mortgaged, and we shall take grain and we shall eat.
NEH 5:4 And there are some saying, We borrowed money for tribute of the king of our fields, and our vineyards, and our houses.
NEH 5:5 And now our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers; as their sons our sons; and behold, we are tyrannizing over our sons and our daughters selling them for bondmen, and there are some of our daughters being tyrannized already; and there is not power to redeem them by our hands, for our fields and our vineyards belong to the important ones.
NEH 5:6 And I fretted very much as I heard their cry and these words.
NEH 5:7 And my heart took counsel with me, and I did combat against the important ones, and the rulers. And I said to them, Shall a man exact from his brother what you do? And I put upon them a great assembly.
NEH 5:8 And I said to them, We have acquired our brothers of the Jews having been sold to the nations, by our voluntary offerings; and do you sell your brothers? Or shall they be sold to us? And they were quiet, and they did not find a word.
NEH 5:9 And I said, The matter is not good which you do. Should you not go forth thus in the fear of our God because of the scorn of the nations of our enemies?
NEH 5:10 And also I, and my brothers, and my acquaintances, put up for them money and grain - we abandoned indeed this exaction.
NEH 5:11 Return indeed, to them, even today, their fields, and their vineyards, and their olive groves, and their houses, and of the money for the grain, and bring forth to them the wine and the olive oil!
NEH 5:12 And they said, We will give it back, and we will not seek from them. We shall do thus as you say. And I called the priests, and bound them by an oath to do as this saying.
NEH 5:13 And I shook off my wrap, and said, Thus shall God shake off every man who does not stand by this word, from out of his house, and from out of his toil; and he will be thus shaken and empty. And all the assembly said, Amen, and praised the LORD. And the people did this thing.
NEH 5:14 And also from the day which he gave charge to me to be for their ruler in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year, and until the thirtieth and second year of Artaxerxes the king, twelve years, that even I and my brothers did not eat bread of my governing.
NEH 5:15 But the rulers before me oppressed upon the people, and took from them in breads and in wine, and last money of forty shekels. And also their servants dominated over the people. But I did not do so, because of the countenance of the fear of the LORD.
NEH 5:16 And in the work of the wall I repaired these things. I acquired not fields of land, and my servants and all the ones gathering were there for the work.
NEH 5:17 And the Jews, and the rulers were a hundred fifty men. And the ones coming to us from the nations round about us were at my table.
NEH 5:18 And there was coming in one day - one calf, and six choice sheep, and a winter yearling; there came to me also in the midst of ten days all wine in multitude. And with these I sought not bread of my governing, for the slavery was heavy upon this people.
NEH 5:19 Remember me, O God, for all good, as much as I did to this people!
NEH 6:1 And it came to pass as Sanballat heard, (and Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies), that I built the wall, and that there was not a breach left in it; (and indeed until that time I did not set up the doors in the gates);
NEH 6:2 that Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, Come, for we should come together in the towns in the plain of Ono! But they were considering to do harm against me.
NEH 6:3 And I sent messengers unto them, saying, The work is great that I do, and I am not able to go down, lest at any time the work should rest. When ever I shall perfect it, then I shall go down to you.
NEH 6:4 And they sent to me as this saying four returns; and I sent to them according to this word.
NEH 6:5 And Sanballat sent to me according to this word the fifth time by his servant, and a letter being open was in his hand.
NEH 6:6 And was written on it, Among the nations it was heard, and Geshem said, that you and the Jews are considering to defect. On account of this you are building the wall, and you should be to them for king.
NEH 6:7 And to these things you established to yourself prophets to proclaim for you in Jerusalem, saying, that you reigned in Judea. And now these words will be reported to the king. And now come, we should consult together.
NEH 6:8 And I sent to him, saying, It happened not as these words which you say, for you lie from the heart about them.
NEH 6:9 For all were throwing us into fear, saying, Their hands shall be made faint from this work, and it shall not be done. And now I strengthened my hands.
NEH 6:10 And I entered into the house of Shemaiah son of Dalaiah, son of Mehetabeel, and he was constrained. And he said, We should gather together in the house of God, in the midst of it, and we should lock its doors, for they are coming by night to murder you.
NEH 6:11 And I said, Who is the man such as I that shall flee? Or who such as I shall enter into the house and shall live?
NEH 6:12 I shall not enter. And I realized, and behold, God did not send him, for the prophesy was a word against me. And Tobiah and Sanballat hired him,
NEH 6:13 so that I should fear, and should do thus, and should sin, and that I should become to them for a bad name, so as to berate me.
NEH 6:14 Remember, O my God, Tobiah and Sanballat, according to these their actions, and Noadiah the prophet, and to the rest of the prophets, who were throwing me into fear!
NEH 6:15 And the wall was finished the fifth and twentieth of the month Elul, in fifty two days.
NEH 6:16 And it came to pass when all our enemies heard, that all the nations round about us feared, and an exceedingly great fear fell upon their eyes. And they knew that by God this work of ours was perfected.
NEH 6:17 And in those days letters went from many important men of Judah to Tobiah, and those of Tobiah came to them.
NEH 6:18 For many in Judah were bound by an oath to him, for he was son-in-law of Shechaniah son of Arah; and Johanan his son took the daughter of Meshullam son of Berechiah for wife.
NEH 6:19 And indeed the things being advantageous to him he spoke before me, and they were bringing my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to throw me into fear.
NEH 7:1 And it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I set the doors, and numbered the gatekeepers, and the singers, and the Levites,
NEH 7:2 and gave charge to Hanani my brother, and to Hananiah the ruler of the palace in Jerusalem, (for he was as a true man, and one fearing God more than many),
NEH 7:3 that I said to them, The gates of Jerusalem shall not be opened until at the same time the sun rises; and while they are still vigilant let the doors be locked and be safeguarded! And you set advance guards of ones living in Jerusalem - a man at his own post, and a man before his own house!
NEH 7:4 And the city was spacious and great, and the people were few in it, and there were not houses having been built.
NEH 7:5 And God put it into my heart, and I gathered the important ones, and the rulers, and the people into groups. And I found a scroll of the group which ascended at first, and I found things being written in it.
NEH 7:6 These are the sons of the place ascending from the captivity of the resettlement of whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon resettled. And they returned to Jerusalem, and to Judah - every man to his own city.
NEH 7:7 The ones coming with Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and Nehemiah, Azariah, and Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baana. And the number of the men of the people of Israel:
NEH 7:8 sons of Parosh - two thousand one hundred seventy-two;
NEH 7:9 sons of Shephatiah - three hundred seventy-two;
NEH 7:10 sons of Arah - six hundred fifty-two;
NEH 7:11 sons of Pahath-moab, with the sons of Jeshua and Joab - two thousand eight hundred eighteen;
NEH 7:12 sons of Elam - a thousand two hundred fifty-four;
NEH 7:13 sons of Zattu - eight hundred forty-five;
NEH 7:14 sons of Zaccai - seven hundred sixty;
NEH 7:15 sons of Binnui - six hundred forty-eight;
NEH 7:16 sons of Bebai - six hundred twenty-eight;
NEH 7:17 sons of Azgad - two thousand three hundred twenty-two;
NEH 7:18 sons of Adonikam - six hundred sixty-seven;
NEH 7:19 sons of Bigvai - two thousand sixty-seven;
NEH 7:20 sons of Adin - six hundred fifty-five;
NEH 7:21 sons of Ater to Hezekiah - ninety-eight;
NEH 7:22 sons of Hashum - three hundred twenty-eight;
NEH 7:23 sons of Bezai - three hundred twenty-four;
NEH 7:24 sons of Hariph - a hundred twelve; sons of Asen - two hundred twenty-three;
NEH 7:25 sons of Gibeon - ninety-five;
NEH 7:26 sons of Beth-lehem and Netophah - a hundred twenty-three.;
NEH 7:27 sons of Anathoth - a hundred twenty-eight;
NEH 7:28 sons of Beth-azmaveth - forty-two men;
NEH 7:29 men of Kirjath-jearim, Chephirah and Beeroth - seven hundred forty-three;
NEH 7:30 men of Ramah and Gaba - six hundred twenty-one;
NEH 7:31 men of Michmas - a hundred twenty-two;
NEH 7:32 men of Beth-el and Ai - a hundred twenty-three;
NEH 7:33 men of the other Nebo - fifty-two;
NEH 7:34 sons of the other Elam - a thousand two hundred fifty-four;
NEH 7:35 sons of Harim - three hundred twenty;
NEH 7:36 sons of Jericho - three hundred forty-five;
NEH 7:37 sons of Lod Hadid and Ono - seven hundred twenty-one;
NEH 7:38 sons of Senaah - three thousand nine hundred thirty.
NEH 7:39 The priests; the sons of Jedaiah, in the house of Jeshua - nine hundred seventy-three;
NEH 7:40 sons of Immer - a thousand fifty-two;
NEH 7:41 sons of Pashur - a thousand two hundred forty-seven;
NEH 7:42 sons of Harim - a thousand seventeen.
NEH 7:43 The Levites; sons of Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with the sons of Hodevah - seventy-four.
NEH 7:44 The singers; sons of Asaph - a hundred forty-eight.
NEH 7:45 The gatekeepers; sons of Shallum, sons of Ater, sons of Talmon, sons of Akkub, sons of Hatita, sons of Shobai - a hundred thirty-eight.
NEH 7:46 The Nethinim; sons of Ziha, sons of Hashupha, sons of Tabbaoth,
NEH 7:47 sons of Keros, sons of Sia, sons of Padon,
NEH 7:48 sons of Lebana, sons of Hagaba, sons of Shalmai,
NEH 7:49 sons of Hanan, sons of Giddel, sons of Gahar,
NEH 7:50 sons of Reaiah, sons of Rezin, sons of Nekoda,
NEH 7:51 sons of Gazzam, sons of Uzza, sons of Phaseah,
NEH 7:52 sons of Besai, sons of Meunim, sons of Nephishesim,
NEH 7:53 sons of Bakbuk, sons of Hakupha, sons of Harhur,
NEH 7:54 sons of Bazlith, sons of Mehida, sons of Harsha,
NEH 7:55 sons of Barkos, sons of Sisera, sons of Tamah,
NEH 7:56 sons of Neziah, sons of Hatipha.
NEH 7:57 The sons of the servants of Solomon; sons of Sotai, sons of Sophereth, sons of Perida,
NEH 7:58 sons of Jaala, sons of Darkon, sons of Giddel,
NEH 7:59 sons of Shephatiah, sons of Hattil, sons of Pochereth, sons of Zebaim, sons of Amon.
NEH 7:60 All the Nethinim, and the sons of the servants of Solomon - three hundred ninety-two.
NEH 7:61 And these ascended from Tel-melah, Tel-haresha, Cherub, Addon, Immer. And they were not able to identify the houses of their families, and their seed, if they are of Israel.
NEH 7:62 The sons of Dalaiah, sons of Tobiah, sons of Nekoda - six hundred forty-two.
NEH 7:63 And from the priests; sons of Habaiah, sons of Koz, sons of Barzillai, which took of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite for wife, and was called by their name.
NEH 7:64 These sought the record of their own group, and it was not found, and they were thrust away of the priesthood.
NEH 7:65 And Arthasastha said to them, that they should not eat from the holy of holies until a priest should rise up to the illuminations and the perfections.
NEH 7:66 And all the assembly was in one accord, as four ten thousands and two thousand three hundred sixty,
NEH 7:67 besides their bondmen and their bondwomen - these were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and male singers and female singers - two hundred forty-five.
NEH 7:68 Their horses - seven hundred thirty-six; mules - two hundred forty-five; camels - four hundred thirty five;
NEH 7:69 donkeys - six thousand seven hundred twenty.
NEH 7:70 And from a portion of the heads of the families they gave for the work, to the Arthasastha for a treasure - a thousand drachmas of gold, fifty bowls, five hundred thirty robes for the priests.
NEH 7:71 And from the heads of the families they gave into the treasuries of the work money of gold - two ten thousands, and two thousand two hundred silver minas.
NEH 7:72 And the rest of the people gave two ten thousands drachmas of gold, and two thousand silver minas, and sixty-seven garments for the priests.
NEH 7:73 And the priests settled, (and the Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singers, and the ones from the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel), in their cities.
NEH 8:1 And the seventh month arrived, and the sons of Israel were in their cities. And all the people gathered together as one man into the wide place in front of the water gate; and they told Ezra the scribe to bring the scroll of the law of Moses, which the LORD gave charge to Israel.
NEH 8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, from man unto woman, and all the ones perceiving to hear, on day one of the seventh month.
NEH 8:3 And he read in it before the square, before the gate of the waters, from the hour of the illuminating by the sun until the middle of the day, before men and women. And they were perceiving, even all the ears of the people, to the scroll of the law.
NEH 8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood upon the wooden rostrum he made for delivering a public address. And stood next to him, Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah at his right; and at the left, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and Hashbadana, and Zechariah, and Meshullam.
NEH 8:5 And Ezra opened the scroll before all the people, for he was above the people. And it came to pass when he opened it, all the people stood.
NEH 8:6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people answered, and said, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands. And they bowed and did obeisance to the LORD with their face upon the ground.
NEH 8:7 And Joshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, and Akkub, Shabbethai, and Hodijah, and Maaseiah, and Kelita, and Azariah, and Jozabad and Hanan, and Pelaiah, and the Levites, were bringing understanding to the people in the law. And the people were at its station.
NEH 8:8 And they read in the scroll of the law of God; and Ezra taught and gave orders in a higher knowledge of the LORD, and the people perceived in the reading.
NEH 8:9 And Nehemiah spoke, who is the Artasastha, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites bringing understanding to the people. And they said to all the people, It is a holy day to the LORD our God; do not mourn nor weep! for all the people wept as they heard the words of the law.
NEH 8:10 And he said to them, Go and eat fatnesses, and drink sweetnesses, and send portions to the ones not having! for the day is holy to the LORD our God. And do not faint! For the joy of the LORD, this is our strength.
NEH 8:11 And the Levites quelled all the people, saying, Keep silent, for the day is holy, and do not fall down!
NEH 8:12 And all the people went forth to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great gladness, for they perceived in the words which he made known to them.
NEH 8:13 And on the second day the rulers of the families gathered together with all the people, the priests, and the Levites, to Ezra the scribe, to attend to all the words of the law.
NEH 8:14 And they found written in the law which the LORD gave charge to Moses, that the sons of Israel should dwell in tents in the holiday in the seventh month,
NEH 8:15 and that they should signify with trumpets in all their cities, and in Jerusalem. And Ezra said, Go forth unto the mountain, and bring olive leaves, and leaves of cypress trees, and leaves of a myrtle tree, and leaves of palms, and leaves of the bushy tree, to make tents, according to the writing!
NEH 8:16 And the people went forth, and brought, and made themselves tents, each man upon his roof, and in their courtyards, and in the courtyards of the house of God, and in the squares of the gate of the waters, and in the squares of the gate of Ephraim.
NEH 8:17 And all the assembly of the ones returning from the captivity made tents, and stayed in tents. For the sons of Israel did not do thus from the days of Joshua son of Nun until that day. And there became a great gladness - exceedingly much.
NEH 8:18 And he read in the scroll of the law of God day by day - from the first day until the last day. And they observed the holiday seven days; and the eighth day was a holiday recess, according to the distinguishing manner.
NEH 9:1 And on the twentieth and fourth day of this month the sons of Israel gathered together for fasting, and with sackcloths, and ashes upon their head.
NEH 9:2 And the sons of Israel separated from every alien son, and stood and declared openly their sins, and the lawless deeds of their fathers.
NEH 9:3 And they stood in their position, and read in the scroll of the law of the LORD their God the fourth of the day; and were declaring openly to the LORD the fourth of the day, and doing obeisance to the LORD their God.
NEH 9:4 And Jeshua stood upon the ascent of the Levites, and the sons of Kadmiel, Secheniah son of Sherebiah, son of Chenani, and yelled with a great voice to the LORD their God.
NEH 9:5 And said the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Sherebiah, Hodijah Shebaniah, Pethahiah, Rise up, bless the LORD our God from the eon and unto the eon! And they shall bless your glorious name, and shall raise it up high with all blessing and praise.
NEH 9:6 And Ezra said, You are he, the LORD alone. You made the heaven and the heaven of the heaven, and all their positions, the earth and all as much as is in it, the seas and all the things in them, and you restore to life all things; and to you the militaries of the heavens do obeisance.
NEH 9:7 You are, O LORD, the God. You chose Abram, and led him from the place of the Chaldeans, and placed unto him the name Abraham.
NEH 9:8 And you found his heart trustworthy before you, and ordained with him a covenant, so as to give to him the land of the Canaanites, and Hittites, and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Jebusites, and Girgashites, and to give it to his seed. And you established your words, for you are just.
NEH 9:9 And you beheld the humiliation of our fathers in Egypt, and you heard their cry at the red sea.
NEH 9:10 And you gave signs and miracles in Egypt to Pharaoh, and among all his servants, and among all the people of his land. For you knew that they extolled themselves above them. And you made for yourself a name as it is this day.
NEH 9:11 And you tore up the sea before them, and they went in the midst of the sea in dryness; and the ones pursuing them you tossed into the bottom of the sea, as a stone in vehement water.
NEH 9:12 And in a column of cloud you guided them by day; and by a column of fire at night, to give light to them for the way in which they went by it.
NEH 9:13 And upon mount Sinai you went down, and spoke to them from out of heaven, and gave to them right judgments, and laws of truth, orders, and good commandments.
NEH 9:14 And your holy sabbath you made known to them - commandments, and orders, and law, you gave charge to them by the hand of Moses your servant.
NEH 9:15 And bread from heaven you gave to them for their provision, and water from out of the rock you brought forth to them for their thirst. And you spoke to them to enter to inherit the land into which you stretched out your hand to give to them.
NEH 9:16 But they and our fathers were prideful, and hardened their neck, and hearkened not unto your commandments.
NEH 9:17 And they shook their heads in dissent to listen, and did not remember your wonders which you performed among them. And they hardened their neck, and they granted a sovereign to return them to slavery in Egypt. But you, O God, in forgiving sins are merciful and pitying, lenient and full of mercy, and did not abandon them.
NEH 9:18 And still also they made for themselves a molten calf, and said, These are the gods leading us from Egypt. And they committed great provocations to anger.
NEH 9:19 And you in your great compassions did not abandon them in the wilderness. The column of cloud did not turn aside from them by day to guide them in the way; and the column of fire by night to give light to them in the way in which they went by it.
NEH 9:20 And your good spirit gave a bringing of understanding to them, and your manna you did not withhold from their mouth, and you gave water to them in their thirst.
NEH 9:21 And forty years you nourished them in the wilderness - not one thing lacked to them; their garments did not become old, and their sandals were not torn up.
NEH 9:22 And you gave them kingdoms, and you divided peoples to them. And they inherited the land of Sihon king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.
NEH 9:23 And their sons you multiplied as the stars of the heaven, and brought them into the land which you spoke to their fathers, to enter and to inherit.
NEH 9:24 And their sons entered and inherited the land; and you obliterated before them the ones dwelling the land of the Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, even their kings, and the peoples of the land, to do to them as was pleasing before them.
NEH 9:25 And they overtook high cities, and a fertile land. And they inherited houses full of all good things, and pits for quarrying, vineyards, and olive groves, and every tree of eatable things in multitude. And they ate, and were filled up, and were fattened, and indulged in your great goodness.
NEH 9:26 And they changed and revolted from you. And they tossed your law behind their body, and they killed your prophets testifying to them to turn them towards you. And they made great provocations to anger.
NEH 9:27 And you gave them into the hand of ones afflicting them, and they afflicted them. And they yelled out to you in the time of their affliction, and you heard from out of your heaven, and in your great compassions you gave deliverers to them, and they delivered them from the hand of ones afflicting them.
NEH 9:28 And as they were caused to rest, they turned to act wickedly before you. And you abandoned them into the hands of their enemies, and they ruled among them. And again they yelled out to you, and you from out of heaven listened and rescued them by your abundant compassions.
NEH 9:29 And you attested to them, to turn them to your law. But they acted superior, and hearkened not of your commandments. And in your judgments they sinned, (which a man doing them shall live by them); and gave their back unto resisting persuasion, and hardened their neck, and hearkened not.
NEH 9:30 And you were long-suffering unto them many years, and drew out patience unto them many years, and attested to them by your spirit, by the hand of your prophets. But they did not give ear, and you gave them into the hand of the peoples of the land.
NEH 9:31 And you, in your abundant compassions, did not appoint them to consummation, and you did not abandon them; for you are strong, and merciful, and pitying.
NEH 9:32 And now, O our God, the strong, the great, the fortified, and fearsome, guarding your covenant, and your mercy, do not let your attention be lessened before you concerning all the trouble which found us, and our kings, and our rulers, and our priests, and our prophets, and our fathers, and among all your people, from the days of the kings of Assyria, and until this day!
NEH 9:33 For you are just concerning all the things coming upon us; for truth you acted, but we were led into sin.
NEH 9:34 And our kings, and our rulers, and our priests, and our fathers, observed not your law, and heeded not your commandments and your testimonies which you testified to them.
NEH 9:35 And they in your kingdom, and in your abundant goodness which you gave to them, and in the spacious and lustrous land which you put before them, did not serve to you, and did not turn from their wicked practices.
NEH 9:36 Behold, we are today servants, and the land which you gave to our fathers, to eat the fruit of it, and the good things of it, even behold, we are servants upon it.
NEH 9:37 And its many fruits became to the kings which you put over us because of our sins; and they exercise authority over our bodies, and over our cattle, as is pleasing to them, and we are in great affliction.
NEH 9:38 And in all these things we are ordained a trust, and we write it; and our rulers put a seal upon it - our Levites, our priests.
NEH 10:1 And over the ones setting seal were Nehemiah Artasastha, son of Hachaliah, and Zidkijah,
NEH 10:2 son of Seraiah, and Azariah, and Jeremiah,
NEH 10:3 Pashur, Amariah, Malchijah,
NEH 10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah Harim, Malluch,
NEH 10:5 Meremoth, Obadiah,
NEH 10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
NEH 10:7 Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,
NEH 10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, and Shemaiah - these were the priests.
NEH 10:9 And the Levites; Jeshua son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;
NEH 10:10 and his brothers, Shebaniah, Hodijah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan.
NEH 10:11 Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah,
NEH 10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah, and Hodijah,
NEH 10:13 the sons of Beninu.
NEH 10:14 The rulers of the people; Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, and Zatthu, sons of Bunni,
NEH 10:15 Azgad, Bebai,
NEH 10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,
NEH 10:17 Ater, Hizkijah, Azzur,
NEH 10:18 Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai,
NEH 10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,
NEH 10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
NEH 10:21 Meshezabeel, Zadok, Jaddua,
NEH 10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
NEH 10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,
NEH 10:24 Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek,
NEH 10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
NEH 10:26 Ahijah, Hanan, Anan,
NEH 10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
NEH 10:28 And the rest of the people were the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, the Nethinim, and all the ones being parted from the peoples of the land to the law of God - their wives, their sons, their daughters, every one knowing and perceiving,
NEH 10:29 growing in strength with their brothers, and imprecating maledictions upon themselves, and entering into a curse, and into an oath, to go by the law of God, which was given by the hand of Moses the servant of God, to guard and to observe all the commandments of the LORD our God, and his judgments and his orders;
NEH 10:30 and to not give our daughters to the peoples of the land, and to not take their daughters for our sons.
NEH 10:31 And concerning the peoples of the land bringing things for purchase, and all things for sale during the sabbath day, to deliver up for sale - we shall not buy from them during the sabbath, nor during the holy days. And we shall ascend the seventh year, and the exaction of every debt of hand. we will obey the seventh year laws.
NEH 10:32 And we shall establish for us commandments to yield up for us a third of the double-drachma per year for the service of the house of our God;
NEH 10:33 for the breads in front, and the perpetual sacrifice offering, and for the perpetual whole burnt offering, of the sabbaths, of the new moons, for the holidays, and for the holy things, and the things for a sin offering to atone for Israel, and for the works of the house of our God.
NEH 10:34 And we cast lots for the gifts of bearing wood (the priests, and the Levites, and the people), to bring into the house of our God, for houses of our families, at seasons, from times year by year, to burn upon the altar of the LORD our God, as is written in the law;
NEH 10:35 and to bring the first produce of our land, and the first produce of the fruit of every tree, year by year, into the house of the LORD;
NEH 10:36 and the first-born of our sons, and of our cattle, as is written in the law, and the first-born of our oxen, and of our flocks - to bring into the house of our God, for the priests officiating in the house of our God.
NEH 10:37 And the first-fruit of our grain, and our first-fruit offerings, and the fruit of every tree, of wine and olive oil, we shall bring to the priests, into the treasuries of the house of our God; and tenths of our land to the Levites, that they themselves, the Levites, are receiving a tenth in all the cities of our servitude.
NEH 10:38 And the priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites in the tenth of the Levites. And the Levites shall offer the tenth of the tenth for the house of our God, into a treasury of the house of the treasury.
NEH 10:39 For into the treasuries the sons of Israel and sons of the Levites shall carry in the first-fruits of the grain, and of the wine, and of the olive oil. And the holy vessels are there, and the priests, the ministers, and the gatekeepers, and the singers. And we shall not abandon the house of our God.
NEH 11:1 And the rulers of the people were settled in Jerusalem. And the rest of the people cast lots to bring one from every ten to settle in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in the other cities.
NEH 11:2 And the people blessed all the men willing to settle in Jerusalem.
NEH 11:3 And these are the rulers of the place, the ones they settled in Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah. Every man settled in his possession in their cities - Israelites, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nethinim, and the sons of the servants of Solomon.
NEH 11:4 And in Jerusalem were settled some from the sons of Judah, and from the sons of Benjamin. From the sons of Judah; Athaiah son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahalaleel, and of the sons of Perez;
NEH 11:5 Maaseiah son of Baruch, son of Colhozeh, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son of Zechariah, son of the Shiloni.
NEH 11:6 All the sons of Perez settling down in Jerusalem - four hundred sixty-eight men of power.
NEH 11:7 And these are the sons of Benjamin; Sallu son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of Kolaiah, son of Masseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jesaiah.
NEH 11:8 And after him Gabbai, Sallai - nine hundred twenty-eight.
NEH 11:9 And Joel son of Zichri was overseer over them; and Judah son of Senuah over the city was second.
NEH 11:10 Of the priests; even Jadaiah son of Joiarib, Jachin.
NEH 11:11 Seraiah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Maraioth, son of Ahitub were ruling the house of God.
NEH 11:12 And their brothers doing the work of the house - eight hundred twenty-two; and Adaiah, son of Jeroham, son of Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah, son of Pashur, son of Malchiah.
NEH 11:13 And his brothers the rulers of families - two hundred forty-two; and Amashai son of Azareel, son of Sikiah, son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer,
NEH 11:14 and his brothers, mighty men of battle array - a hundred twenty-eight. And overseer over them was Zabdiel, son of the great ones.
NEH 11:15 And from the Levites; Shemaiah son of Hashub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni;
NEH 11:16 and Shabbethai and Jozabad were over the works of the house of God, the outermost, and from the rulers of the Levites.
NEH 11:17 And Mattaniah son of Micha, son of Zechri, son of Asaph was in charge of the praise, and Juda of the prayer, and Bakbukiah second of of his brothers, and Abda son of Shammua, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun.
NEH 11:18 All the Levites in the holy city - two hundred eighty-four.
NEH 11:19 And the gatekeepers; Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers guarding at the gates - a hundred seventy-two.
NEH 11:20 And the rest of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, every man in his inheritance.
NEH 11:21 And the Nethinim dwelt in Ophel; and Ziha and Gispa were of the Nethinim.
NEH 11:22 And the overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi son of Bani, son of Hashabiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Micha, from the sons of Asaph the singers before the work of the house of God.
NEH 11:23 For a commandment of the king was upon them, and it continued in trust unto the singers a reckoning each day in its day.
NEH 11:24 And Pethahiah son of Meshezabeel, of the sons of Zerah, son of Judah, was by the hand of the king for all matters concerning the people.
NEH 11:25 And for the properties in their fields, some from the sons of Judah settled in Kirjath-arba, and in her daughter towns, and in Dibon, and in her daughter towns, and in Jekabseel, and in her courtyards,
NEH 11:26 and in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and in Beth-phelet,
NEH 11:27 and in Hazar-shual and in Beer-sheba, and her daughter towns,
NEH 11:28 and in Ziklag, and in Mabne, and in her daughter towns,
NEH 11:29 and in Rimmon, and in Zereah, and in Jarmuth,
NEH 11:30 and in Zanoah, and Adullam, and her properties, and in Lachish, and her fields, and in Azekah, and in her daughter towns. And they camped in Beer-sheba unto the ravine of Hinnom.
NEH 11:31 And the sons of Benjamin dwelt from Geba and unto Michmash, and Aija, and Beth-el, and her daughter towns,
NEH 11:32 and in Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
NEH 11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
NEH 11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
NEH 11:35 Lod, and Ono-kareseim.
NEH 11:36 And of the Levites there were portions in Judah and Benjamin.
NEH 12:1 And these are the priests and the Levites ascending with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua; Saraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
NEH 12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
NEH 12:3 Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
NEH 12:4 Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah,
NEH 12:5 Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
NEH 12:6 Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah,
NEH 12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the rulers of the priests, and their brothers in the days of Jeshua.
NEH 12:8 And the Levites; Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Joiada, Mattaniah, which was over the acknowledgments, he and his brothers.
NEH 12:9 And Bakbukiah and Unni, their brothers, were over against them in the daily rotations.
NEH 12:10 And Jeshua engendered Joiakim, and Joiakim engendered Eliashib, and Eliashib engendered Joiada,
NEH 12:11 and Joiada engendered Jonathan, and Jonathan engendered Jaddua.
NEH 12:12 And in the days of Joiakim were the priests, and the rulers of the families - to Seraiah, Meraiah; to Jeremiah, Hananiah;
NEH 12:13 to Ezra, Meshullam; to Amariah, Jehohanan;
NEH 12:14 to Melicu, Jonathan; to Secheniah, Joseph;
NEH 12:15 to Harim, Adna; to Maraioth, Helkai;
NEH 12:16 to Iddo, Zechariah; to Ginnethon, Meshullam;
NEH 12:17 to Abijah, Zichri; to Miniamin, Moadiah; to Piltai;
NEH 12:18 to Bilgah, Shammua; to Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
NEH 12:19 to Joiarib, Mattenai; to Jedaiah, Uzzi;
NEH 12:20 to Sallai, Kallai; to Amok, Eber;
NEH 12:21 to Hilkiah, Hashabiah; to Jedaiah, Nethaneel.
NEH 12:22 The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Joa, and Johanan, and Jaddua were written down as rulers of the families; and the priests, in the kingdom of Darius the Persian.
NEH 12:23 And the sons of Levi, rulers of the families, were written down upon the scroll of the words of the days, even until the days of Johanan son of Eliashib.
NEH 12:24 And the rulers of the Levites - Hashabiah, and Sherebiah, and Jeshua, and the sons of Kadmiel, and their brothers over against them, for praising and making acknowledgment, by the command of David the man of God, in daily rotation by daily rotation.
NEH 12:25 Mattaniah and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were guarding gatekeepers of the watch in my gathering the gatekeepers.
NEH 12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim son of Jeshua, son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the ruler, and Ezra the priest and scribe.
NEH 12:27 And in the festival of dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought out the Levites in their places, to bring them into Jerusalem, to observe the holiday of rededication with gladness, and in praise, and in odes, playing cymbals, and psalteries, and lutes.
NEH 12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered even from the place round about Jerusalem, and from the properties of the Netophathi,
NEH 12:29 and in Beth-gilgal, and from the fields of Geba and Azmaveth; for the singers built for themselves nearby properties surrounding Jerusalem.
NEH 12:30 And the priests and the Levites cleansed themselves, and they cleansed the people, and the gates, and the wall.
NEH 12:31 And they brought the rulers of Judah upon the wall, and I stationed two great companies for praise, and one went at the right of the wall of the gate of the dung;
NEH 12:32 and Hoshaiah and half of the rulers of Judah went behind them,
NEH 12:33 and Azariah, and Ezra, and Meshullam,
NEH 12:34 and Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah,
NEH 12:35 and some from the sons of the priests with trumpets - Zechariah son of Jonathan, son of Shemaiah, son of Mathaniah, son of Michaiah, son of Zaccur, son of Asap;
NEH 12:36 and his brothers, Shemaiah, and Azarael, Gilalai, Maai, Nethaneel, and Judah and Hanani, to praise by instruments in odes of David the man of God, and Ezra the scribe was in front of them.
NEH 12:37 At the gate of the spring, over by them, they ascended upon the stairways of the city of David, by ascending the wall on top of the house of David, and unto the water gate according to the east.
NEH 12:38 And for praise, the second group went forth to meet them. And I was behind them. And half of the people were above the wall, up above the tower of the furnaces, and unto the broad wall;
NEH 12:39 and up above the gate of Ephraim, and upon the gate of Eisiana, and upon the fish gate, and the tower of Hananeel, and from the tower of Meah, and unto the gate of the sheep; and they stopped upon the gate of the prison.
NEH 12:40 And the two groups stood for praise in the house of God, and I and the half of the commandants were with me.
NEH 12:41 And the priests; Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, Hananiah, were with trumpets;
NEH 12:42 and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Melchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers were heard, and Jezrahiah the overseer.
NEH 12:43 And they sacrificed in that day great sacrifices, and were glad, for God gladdened them gladness with great. And their wives and their children were glad. And the gladness in Jerusalem was heard from far off.
NEH 12:44 And they ordained in that day men over the treasuries, for the treasures, for the first-fruits, and for the tenths, to gather in to them from the fields of the cities portions to the priests and to the Levites; for there was gladness in Judah, and upon the priests, and the Levites standing.
NEH 12:45 And they guarded the watch of their God, and the watches of the cleansing, even the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the commands of David, and Solomon his son.
NEH 12:46 For in the days of David and Asaph from the beginning there was a first one of the singers, and a hymn and praise to God.
NEH 12:47 And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, were giving portions for the singers and for the gatekeepers - an account of it day by day. And they sanctified them to the Levites; and the Levites sanctified them to the sons of Aaron.
NEH 13:1 In that day they read in the scroll of Moses into the ears of the people; and it was found written in it how that the Ammonite and Moabite should not enter into the assembly of God unto the eon,
NEH 13:2 for they did not meet the sons of Israel with bread and water, and they hired against them Balaam to curse them. And our God turned the curse into a blessing.
NEH 13:3 And it came to pass as they heard the law, that they separated all the intermixed in Israel.
NEH 13:4 And before this, Eliashib the priest lived in the treasury of the house of our God, near Tobiah.
NEH 13:5 And he made for him a great treasury, and there they were formerly putting the sacrifice offering, and the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tenth of the grain, and of the wine, and of the olive oil, a commandment for giving to the Levites, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the first-fruits of the priests.
NEH 13:6 And during all this I was not in Jerusalem. For in the thirtieth and second year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon I went to the king, and after the end of the days I asked things of the king.
NEH 13:7 And I came into Jerusalem, and I perceived the wickedness which Eliashib did for Tobiah, to make for him a treasury in the courtyard of the house of God.
NEH 13:8 And it appeared exceedingly wicked to me, and I tossed all the items of the house of Tobiah outside of the treasury.
NEH 13:9 And I spoke, and they cleansed the treasuries; and I returned there the vessels of the house of God for the sacrifice offering and the frankincense.
NEH 13:10 And I knew that the portions of the Levites were not given them; and every man fled unto his own field - the Levites, and the singers, and ones doing the work.
NEH 13:11 And I quarreled with the commandants, and said, Why did it abandon the house of God? And I gathered them, and set them at their station.
NEH 13:12 And all Judah brought a tenth of the wheat, and of the wine, and of the olive oil, into the treasuries.
NEH 13:13 And I gave charge unto the hand of Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah of the Levites; and near their hand was Hanan son of Zaccur, son of Mattaniah. For they were considered trustworthy, as it was upon them to portion out to their brothers.
NEH 13:14 Remember me, O God, in this, that my acts of mercy should not be wiped away which I did in the house of the LORD my God, and in his watches!
NEH 13:15 In those days I beheld in Judah ones treading the wine vats on the sabbath, and bringing sheaves, and loading upon the donkeys - even wine, and the grape cluster, and figs, and every burden, and bringing them into Jerusalem on the day of the sabbath. And I attested to them in the day of their sale.
NEH 13:16 For even the ones of Tyre sold provision, and sat by it bringing fish, and selling every item for sale on the sabbath to the sons of Judah, and in Jerusalem.
NEH 13:17 And I quarreled with the free men of Judah, and said to them, What is this wicked matter which you do, and profane the day of the sabbath?
NEH 13:18 Did not your fathers do thus, and our God brought upon them and upon us all these evils, and upon this city? And you add to the anger upon Israel to profane the sabbath.
NEH 13:19 And it came to pass when the gates were stood in Jerusalem before the sabbath, that I spoke, and they locked the gates. And I spoke so as to not open them until after the sabbath. And I stood some of my young men at the gates, so as for others to not lift burdens on the day of the sabbath.
NEH 13:20 And all the traders lodged and did business outside of Jerusalem once or twice.
NEH 13:21 And I testified to them, and said to them, Why do you lodge before the wall? If you repeat it a second time, I will stretch out my hand against you. From that time they did not come on the sabbath.
NEH 13:22 And I spoke to the Levites who were being cleansed, and the ones coming guarding the gates to sanctify the day of the sabbath. For these things remember me, O my God, and spare me according to the magnitude of your mercy!
NEH 13:23 And in those days I saw the Jews who settled with wives of Ashdod, of Ammon, and Moab.
NEH 13:24 And their sons were speaking half Ashdodish, and are not knowing to speak Jewish, but spoke according to the language of this people and that people.
NEH 13:25 And I quarreled with them, and cursed them, and struck some of their men, and plucked their hair, and bound them to an oath by God, You shall not give your daughters to their sons, and you shall not indeed take of their daughters for your sons, and to yourselves.
NEH 13:26 Did not Solomon king of Israel thus sin? And among many nations there was not a king likened to him, and he was one being loved by God, and God appointed him as king over all Israel, and in this the alien wives turned him aside.
NEH 13:27 So should we hearken of your doing this wickedness, to break contract with our God, and to settle with alien wives?
NEH 13:28 And from the sons of Joiada, Eliashib the great priest, in-law to Sanballat the Horonite - even I threw him from me.
NEH 13:29 Remember them, O my God, for they were against the right of inheritance of the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites!
NEH 13:30 And I cleansed them from all alien connection, and I set the daily rotations for the priests and for the Levites, every man according to his work;
NEH 13:31 and for the gift of the wood offerings in seasons, from times, and in the first produce. Remember me, O our God, for goodness!
EST 1:1 And it came to pass in the days of Artaxerxes - this Artaxerxes held a hundred twenty-seven regions from India.
EST 1:2 And in those days, when king Artaxerxes was enthroned in Shushan the city,
EST 1:3 in the third year of his reign, he made a banquet to his friends, and to the rest of the nations, and to the Persians and Medes, and honorable ones, and to the rulers of the satrapies.
EST 1:4 And after these things, after the showing to them the riches of his kingdom, and the glory of his gladness, even for a hundred eighty days,
EST 1:5 that when the days of the wedding feast were fulfilled, the king made a banquet for the nations found in the city, for six days, in the courtyard of the house of the king;
EST 1:6 being adorned in fine linen, and cotton being stretched upon lines of fine linen and of purple, upon cube studs of gold and silver, upon columns of Parian marble, and stones, with beds of gold and silver upon a stone pavement of emerald stone, and mother of pearl, and Parian marble stone, and transparent strewn beds being decorated variously,
EST 1:7 with cups of gold and silver, wine abundant and agreeable, which the king himself drank.
EST 1:8 But this banquet took place not according to the law being situated; but thus the king wanted, and he gave orders to the managers to do his will, and for the men.
EST 1:9 And Vashti the queen made a banquet for the women in the palace where king Artaxerxes was.
EST 1:10 And on the seventh day, the king being with pleasure, said to Mehuman, and Biztha, and Harbona, and Bigtha, and Abagtha, and Zethar, and Carcas, the seven eunuchs of king Artaxerxes,
EST 1:11 to bring in the queen to him, to give her reign, and to put on her the diadem, and to show her to all the rulers, and to the nations of her beauty - for she was beautiful.
EST 1:12 And queen Vashti listened not to him to come with the eunuchs. And the king fretted, and was provoked to anger.
EST 1:13 And he said to his friends, Thus these things Vashti spoke, you deal then concerning this law and judgment!
EST 1:14 And came forward to him Carshena, and Shethar and Admatha, and Tarshish, and Meres and Marsena and Memucan - seven rulers of the Persians and Medes near the king, the ones foremost being seated near the king.
EST 1:15 And they reported to him according to the laws as what Vashti the queen must do, for she had not done the things having been assigned by the king through the eunuchs.
EST 1:16 And Memucan said to the king, and to the rulers, Not only queen Vashti wronged the king, but also all the rulers, and the leaders of the king,
EST 1:17 (for even he described to them the sayings of the queen, and how ever she contradicted to the king, as then she did contradict to king Artaxerxes),
EST 1:18 that today, the wives of the sovereigns, the rest of the rulers of the Persians and Medes, hearing the things having been said against the king by her, shall dare in like manner to dishonor their husbands.
EST 1:19 If then it seems good to the king, let him assign a royal decree, and let him write it according to the laws of the Medes and Persians, and not otherwise treat nor let the queen any longer enter to him. And let the king give her royalty to a woman better than her!
EST 1:20 And let the law by the king be heard, which ever he should make for his kingdom! And thus to all the wives - they shall invest honor to their own husbands, from poor unto rich.
EST 1:21 And the word pleased the king and the rulers. And the king did as Memucan said.
EST 1:22 And he sent letters into all the kingdom, according to place, according to their form of speech, so as to be fearing them in their households.
EST 2:1 And after these matters the king's rage was abated, and no longer was Vashti mentioned, remembering, as much as she spoke, and how he condemned her.
EST 2:2 And the servants of the king said, Let there be sought to the king young women uncorrupted, beautiful in appearance!
EST 2:3 And the king shall place magistrates in all the places of his kingdom; and let them choose young women, virgins, beautiful in appearance, to be brought to Shushan the city, into the chamber of the women! And let them be delivered to the eunuch of the king, to the keeper of the women! And let there be given a beauty treatment, and the remaining care!
EST 2:4 And the woman who ever should be pleasing to the king shall reign instead of Vashti. And the thing pleased the king; and he did so.
EST 2:5 And there was a man, a Jew, in Shushan the city, and his name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, of the tribe of Benjamin;
EST 2:6 who was a captive from Jerusalem, which Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon captured.
EST 2:7 And there was to this man a child that he brought up, ( the daughter of the brother of his father), and her name was Esther. And at the changeover of her parents, he instructed her to himself for a wife. And the young woman was good in appearance.
EST 2:8 And when the king's order was heard, many young women were gathered together in Shushan the city, by the hand of Hegai, and Esther was led to Hegai, the keeper of the women.
EST 2:9 And the young woman pleased him, and she found favor before him. And he hastened to give her the beauty treatment, and her portion, and the seven young women being exhibited to her from the royal palace. And he treated her well, and her handmaidens in the chamber of the women.
EST 2:10 But Esther did not plainly show her race, nor her fatherland, for Mordecai gave charge to her not to report it.
EST 2:11 And each day Mordecai walked by the feminine courtyard, overseeing what would come to pass with Esther.
EST 2:12 For this was the time for a young woman to enter to the king, whenever she should have fulfilled twelve months, for thus are fulfilled the days of the treatment - six months with the aromatics, and with the beauty treatments for the women,
EST 2:13 and six months being anointed with myrrh oil, and then she enters to the king. And to whom ever he should tell, he delivers her to enter together with him, from the chamber of the women unto the palaces.
EST 2:14 In the evening she enters, and by day she runs to the second chamber of the women, where Hegai, the eunuch of the king, the keeper of the women is. And no longer does she enter to the king if she should not be called by name.
EST 2:15 And in the fulfilling the time, Esther, the daughter of Abihail, brother of the father of Mordecai, entered to the king. Not one thing she disregarded which the eunuch keeper of the women gave charge to her. For Esther was found in favor by all the ones seeing her.
EST 2:16 And Esther entered to Artaxerxes the king in the tenth month, which is Tebeth, in the seventh year of his kingship.
EST 2:17 And the king loved Esther passionately, and she found favor above all the virgins; and he placed upon her the feminine diadem.
EST 2:18 And the king made a banquet for all his friends, and the powerful ones, for seven days, and exalted the wedding feasts of Esther. And he made a release to the ones under his kingdom.
EST 2:19 But Mordecai attended to affairs in the courtyard.
EST 2:20 Now Esther did not plainly tell of her fatherland, for thus Mordecai gave charge to her, to fear God, and to observe his orders, as she was with him. And Esther did not change over her conduct.
EST 2:21 And the two eunuchs of the king fretted, and the chiefs of the body guards, for Mordecai advanced. And they sought to kill Artaxerxes the king.
EST 2:22 And the matter was made manifest to Mordecai, and he signaled it to Esther, and she revealed to the king the things of the plot.
EST 2:23 And the king examined the two eunuchs, and hanged them. And the king gave order to write for a memorial in the royal library about the good-will of Mordecai with commendation.
EST 3:1 After these things king Artaxerxes extolled Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and exalted him, and seated him first above all his friends.
EST 3:2 And all the ones in the courtyard did obeisance to him; for so the king assigned it to do. But Mordecai did not do obeisance to him.
EST 3:3 And the ones in the courtyard of the king said to Mordecai, O Mordecai, why do you disregard the things being said by the king?
EST 3:4 Accordingly each day they spoke to him, and he hearkened not to them. And they indicated to Haman that Mordecai was rebelling against the words of the king. And Mordecai indicated to them that he is a Jew.
EST 3:5 And Haman, realizing that Mordecai did not do obeisance to him, was enraged exceedingly.
EST 3:6 And he took counsel to remove all the Jews under the kingdom of Artaxerxes.
EST 3:7 And he made a referendum in the twelfth year of the kingdom of Artaxerxes, and cast lots day by day, and month by month, so as to destroy in one day the race of Mordecai. And the lot fell on the fourteenth of the month, which is Adar.
EST 3:8 And he spoke to king Artaxerxes, saying, There exists a nation having been disseminated among the nations in all your kingdom, but their laws are special from all the nations, and of the laws of the king they disregard; and it is not advantageous to the king to allow them.
EST 3:9 If it seems good to the king, let him decree to destroy them, and I will circumscribe for the treasury of the king ten thousand talents of silver.
EST 3:10 And the king removing the ring, gave it into the hands to Haman to set a seal according to the things being written against the Jews.
EST 3:11 And the king said to Haman, As for the silver, you have it! And to the nation - you treat it as you want!
EST 3:12 And the scribes were called by the king in the first month, the thirteenth day, and they wrote as Haman gave orders to the commandants, and to the rulers in every place from India unto Ethiopia, to a hundred twenty-seven places, to the rulers of the nations according to their form of speech, through Artaxerxes the king.
EST 3:13 And it was sent by couriers into the kingdom of Artaxerxes, to remove the race of the Jews on day one of the twelfth month, which is Adar, and to plunder their possessions.
EST 3:14 3588-1161 ta deAnd the copies of the letters were displayed in each place. And it was assigned to all to be prepared for that day.
EST 3:15 And the thing was hastened, even in Shushan. And the king and Haman toasted, but the city was disturbed.
EST 4:1 But Mordecai realizing the end, tore his garments, and put on sackcloth, and strewed ashes. And rushing out through the square of the city, he yelled with a great voice, A nation having wronged no one is going to be taken away.
EST 4:2 And he came unto the gate of the king, and stood; for it was not allowed for him to enter into the courtyard having on sackcloth and ashes.
EST 4:3 And in every place where the letters were displayed there was a cry, and a beating of the breast, and great mourning among the Jews. And with sackcloth and ashes they made beds for themselves.
EST 4:4 And the handmaidens and the eunuchs of the queen entered, and announced to her. And she was disturbed hearing the thing taking place; and she sent to robe Mordecai, and to remove from him the sackcloth - but he yielded not.
EST 4:5 And then Esther called on Hatach, her eunuch, who stood beside her. And she sent to learn for herself from Mordecai the exact situation.
EST 4:7 And Mordecai indicated to him the thing taking place, and the promise which Haman promised to the king, for the treasury paying ten thousand talents that he should destroy the Jews.
EST 4:8 And the copy in Shushan, being displayed for purpose of destroying them, he gave to him, to show to Esther. And he told him to give charge to her to enter to ask pardon of the king, and to be found worthy by him for the people, remembering, said he, The days of your low estate, how you were maintained by my hand; for Haman the one being second to the king speaks against us for death. You call upon the LORD, and speak to the king concerning us, even to rescue us from out of death!
EST 4:9 And Hatach entering spoke to Esther all these words.
EST 4:10 And Esther said to Hatach, You go to Mordecai, and say!
EST 4:11 that, All the nations of the kingdom know that every man or woman who shall enter to the king, into the inner courtyard uncalled, that there is not deliverance to him, except to whomever the king stretches out the golden rod - this one shall be delivered. And I have not been called to enter to the king - they are these thirty days.
EST 4:12 And Hatach reported to Mordecai all the words of Esther.
EST 4:13 And Mordecai said to Hatach, Go and say to her! Esther, you should not say to yourself that you shall be delivered alone in the kingdom of all the Jews.
EST 4:14 So that if you should disregard at this time, from elsewhere help and protection will be to the Jews; but you and the house of your father will be destroyed; and who knows if it be for this occasion you reigned.
EST 4:15 And Esther sent the one having come to her to Mordecai, saying,
EST 4:16 In proceeding, you hold an assembly of the Jews in Shushan, and you all fast for me! And you should not eat nor drink for three days - night and day. And I and the handmaidens of mine shall go without food; and then I shall enter to the king contrary to the law, even if it is necessary for me to perish.
EST 4:17 And proceeding, Mordecai did as much as Esther gave charge to him.
EST 5:1 And it came to pass in the third day, Esther put on royal apparel, and stood in the courtyard of the house of the king, in the inner courtyard, right opposite the royal house of the king. And the king sat down on the throne of his own kingdom in the royal house, right opposite the door of the house.
EST 5:2 And as the king saw Esther the queen standing in the courtyard, that she found favor in his eyes. And the king stretching out to Esther the golden rod in his hand, that Esther approached, and touched the tip of the rod.
EST 5:3 And the king said, What do you want, Esther? and what is your request? the worth unto half of my kingdom will be to you.
EST 5:4 And Esther said, Today is a notable day for me. If then it seems good to the king, let both the king and Haman come to the banquet which I shall prepare today!
EST 5:5 And the king said, Hasten Haman, so that we should do the word of Esther! And they came both to the banquet which Esther made.
EST 5:6 And at the banquet the king said to Esther, What is it to you, queen Esther, and it will be to you as much as is worthy?
EST 5:7 And she said, The request of mine and my petition -
EST 5:8 if I found favor before the king, let the king and Haman come upon the morrow to the banquet which I shall prepare for them, and tomorrow I will do the same!
EST 5:9 And Haman went forth from the king overjoyed and being glad. But in Haman's seeing Mordecai the Jew in the courtyard, he was enraged exceedingly.
EST 5:10 And entering into his own place, he called his friends, and Zeresh his wife.
EST 5:11 And he showed to them his riches, and the glory which the king invested in him, and how he made him to be preeminent, and to take the lead of the kingdom.
EST 5:12 And Haman said, The queen has called not one with the king, not one to the banquet, but me; and for the morrow she has invited me.
EST 5:13 And these things do not please me, whenever I behold Mordecai the Jew in the courtyard.
EST 5:14 And Zeresh his wife said to him, and his friends, Fell to yourself a tree of fifty cubits, and at dawn speak to the king, and hang Mordecai upon the tree; and you enter into the banquet with the king, and be glad! And the saying pleased Haman, and the tree was prepared.
EST 6:1 But the LORD removed the sleep from the king that night; and he told his servant to carry in memorandum letters of the days to read to him.
EST 6:2 And he found letters having been written concerning Mordecai, as was reported to the king concerning the two eunuchs of the king, during their watching and their seeking to put hands on Artaxerxes.
EST 6:3 And the king said, What glory or favor did we do for Mordecai? And the servants of the king said, We did not do for him one thing.
EST 6:4 And during the inquiring by the king concerning the good-will of Mordecai, behold, Haman was in the courtyard. And the king said, Who is in the courtyard? And he entered to speak to the king, to hang Mordecai upon the tree which he prepared.
EST 6:5 And the servants of the king said, Behold, Haman stands in the courtyard. And the king said, Call him!
EST 6:6 And the king said to Haman, What shall I do to the man whom I want to extol? And Haman said to himself, Who does the king want to extol unless me?
EST 6:7 And he said to the king, As for the man whom the king wants to extol,
EST 6:8 let the servants of the king bring fine linen apparel which the king puts on, and the horse upon which the king mounts,
EST 6:9 and give it to one of the friends of the king of the honorable ones, and robe the man whom the king loves, and mount him upon the horse, and let him proclaim through the square of the city! saying, So shall it be done to every man whom the king extols.
EST 6:10 And the king said to Haman, You spoke well, you do thus to Mordecai the Jew, the one attending in the courtyard, and do not let fall from you a word which you spoke!
EST 6:11 And Haman took the robe, and the horse, and he robed Mordecai, and mounted him upon the horse, and went through the square of the city, and proclaimed, saying, So it will be to every man the king wants to extol.
EST 6:12 And Mordecai returned to the courtyard. And Haman returned to his own place fretting with a down cast head.
EST 6:13 And Haman described the things coming to pass to him to Zeresh his wife, and to his friends. And the friends and wife said to him, Since Mordecai is of the race of the Jews, and you began to be humbled before him, in falling you shall fall, and in no way should you be able to defend against him, for the living God is with him.
EST 6:14 While they were yet speaking, the eunuchs came to hurry Haman unto the banquet which Esther prepared.
EST 7:1 And they entered, the king and Haman, to drink together with the queen.
EST 7:2 And the king said to Esther on the second day at the banquet, What is it queen Esther? and what is your request? and what is your petition? and it will be to you unto half of my kingdom!
EST 7:3 And answering she said, If I found favor before the king, let him give life to my request, and my people to my petition.
EST 7:4 For both I and my people were sold into destruction, and ravaging, and slavery; we, and both our children for menservants and maidservants, and I neglected to speak; for the slanderer is not worthy of the courtyard of the king.
EST 7:5 And the king said, Who is this who dared to do this thing?
EST 7:6 And Esther said, A man, an enemy, Haman, this wicked man. And Haman was disturbed before the king and the queen.
EST 7:7 And the king rose up from the party to go into the garden. And Haman appealed to the queen, for he saw himself being in evils.
EST 7:8 And the king returned from out of the garden; and Haman had fallen upon the bed petitioning the queen. And the king said, So as even with my wife you use force in my house. And Haman, hearing, was overawed in front of him.
EST 7:9 And Harbonah one of the eunuchs said to the king, Behold, Haman prepared even a tree for Mordecai, the one speaking for the king, and it was set straight up in the places of Haman - of fifty cubits. And the king said, Let him be crucified upon it!
EST 7:10 And Haman was hung upon the tree which he prepared for Mordecai. And then the king slackened from the rage.
EST 8:1 And in that day king Artaxerxes presented to Esther as much as existed to Haman the slanderer. And Mordecai was called on by the king, for Esther indicated how he was related to her.
EST 8:2 And the king took the ring which he removed from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther placed Mordecai over all the things of Haman.
EST 8:3 And proceeding, she spoke to the king, and fell upon his feet, and petitioned him to remove the evil of Haman, and as much as he did to the Jews.
EST 8:4 And the king stretched out to Esther the gold rod, and Esther arose to stand beside the king.
EST 8:5 And Esther said, If it seems good to you, and I found favor, let it be sent forth to return the letters being sent from Haman having been written to destroy the Jews who are in your kingdom.
EST 8:6 For how shall I be able to behold the ill treatment of my people? And how shall I be able to be delivered in the destruction of my fatherland?
EST 8:7 And the king said to Esther, If all the possessions of Haman I gave and granted to you, and he I hanged upon the tree for the hands he bore against the Jews, what yet do you anxiously seek?
EST 8:8 And you write in my name as it seems good to you, and set a seal with with my ring! For as much as is written of the king in giving an order, and the seal should be set by my ring, it is not to them to contradict.
EST 8:9 And the scribes were called in the first month, which is Nisan, on the third and twentieth day of the same year. And it was written to the Jews, as much as was given charge to the local managers, and to the rulers of the satrapies from India unto Ethiopia - a hundred twenty-seven satrapies, according to place by place, according to their form of speech.
EST 8:10 And it was written through the king, and set seal with his ring. And they sent out the letters by couriers,
EST 8:11 as he gave orders to them to deal with their laws in every city, both to help them, and to deal with their opponents, and with their adversaries, as they wanted,
EST 8:12 on one day in all the kingdom of Artaxerxes, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is Adar.
EST 8:13 And the copies, let them be displayed clear to the eyes in all the kingdom, and for all the Jews to be prepared for this day, for them to wage war against their opponents.
EST 8:14 Then the horsemen went forth hastening to complete the things being spoken by the king. And the order was displayed also in Shushan.
EST 8:15 And Mordecai went forth robed in the royal apparel, and having a crown of gold, and a diadem of purple fine line. And the ones in Shushan beholding rejoiced.
EST 8:16 And to the Jews there became light and gladness.
EST 8:17 In each city and place, of which ever the public notice was displayed, there was joy and gladness among the Jews, with toasting and gladness. And many of the nations were circumcised, and were Jewish-like because of the fear of the Jews.
EST 9:1 For in the twelfth month, on the thirteenth of the month, which is Adar, the letters written by the king were at hand.
EST 9:2 And in that day the adversaries of the Jews were destroyed, for no one opposed, in fearing them.
EST 9:3 For the rulers of the satraps, and the sovereigns, and the royal scribes esteemed the Jews; for the fear of Mordecai rested upon them.
EST 9:4 For the order of the king fell for him to be namedfamous. in all the kingdom.
EST 9:6 And in Shushan the city the Jews killed five hundred men -
EST 9:7 both Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha,
EST 9:8 and Poratha, and Adalia, and Aridatha and Parmashta, and Arisai,
EST 9:9 and Aridai, and Vajezatha,
EST 9:10 even the ten sons of Haman, son of Hammedatha the Bougean, the enemy of the Jews; but they plundered not in that day.
EST 9:11 And the number was given to the king of the ones being destroyed in Shushan.
EST 9:12 And the king said to Esther, The Jews destroyed in Shushan five hundred men in the city; and in the place round about, how do you imagine they were treated? What then do you still petition, for it will be yours?
EST 9:13 And Esther said to the king, Let it be given for the Jews to deal likewise tomorrow, so as far the ten sons of Haman to hang.
EST 9:14 And the king committed it so to be. And he displayed to the Jews of the city the bodies of the sons of Haman to hang.
EST 9:15 And the Jews gathered together in Shushan on the fourteenth day of Adar, and they killed three hundred men, but they plundered nothing.
EST 9:16 And the rest of the Jews in the kingdom gathered together and helped themselves, and gained rest from the warlike men; for they destroyed of them, seven ten thousands, and five thousand men on the thirteenth of Adar, but they plundered nothing.
EST 9:17 And they rested on the fourteenth of the same month, and celebrated it as a day of rest with joy and gladness.
EST 9:18 And the Jews in Shushan the city gathered together also on the fourteenth and rested. But they celebrated even on the fifteenth with joy and gladness.
EST 9:19 Because of this then, the Jews, being disseminated in every place outside, celebrate on the fourteenth of Adar, a good day with gladness, each sending portions to the neighbor.
EST 9:20 And Mordecai wrote these words in a scroll, and sent them to the Jews, as many as were in the kingdom of Artaxerxes near and far,
EST 9:21 to establish these days as good days, and to celebrate both the fourteenth and the fifteenth of Adar.
EST 9:22 For in these days the Jews gained rest from their enemies. And the month in which things turned for them, which was Adar, from mourning to joy, and from grief to good days, was to celebrate entirely for good days of wedding feasts and gladness, sending gift portions to their friends, and to the poor.
EST 9:23 And the Jews favorably received it as Mordecai wrote to them,
EST 9:24 of how Haman son of Hammedatha the Macedonian waged war against them; as he ordained a referendum and the lot, to obliterate them;
EST 9:25 and how he entered to the king, telling him to hang Mordecai. But as much as he attempted to bring bad things upon the Jews, upon himself it came to pass; and he was hanged, he and his children.
EST 9:26 On account of this they call these days Purimlots. because of the lots, (for in their dialect they are called purim), because of the words of this letter, and as much as they suffered on account of it, and as much as happened to them and was stopped.
EST 9:27 And the Jews favorably received it for themselves, and for their seed, and for the ones purposed unto them to observe it - nor in fact shall they treat it otherwise. And these days were a memorial being completed according to generation and generation, and city, and family, and place.
EST 9:28 And these days were celebrated for all time, and their memorial in no way should fail unto generations.
EST 9:29 And Esther the queen daughter of Abihail wrote, and Mordecai the Jew, as much as they did, also the confirmation of the letter of the purim.
EST 9:31 And Mordecai, and Esther the queen, established themselves for them; and then establishing according to their fasting and of their counsel.
EST 9:32 And Esther established the matter for the eon, and it was written for a memorial.
EST 10:1 And the king wrote unto the kingdom by both land and sea.
EST 10:2 And his strength, and the valor, riches, and also the glory of his kingdom, behold, they are written in the scroll of the Persians and Medes for a memorial.
EST 10:3 For Mordecai relieved king Artaxerxes, and was great in the kingdom, and being extolled by the Jews, and being fond to describe the welfare to all their nation.
JOB 1:1 There was a certain man in the land of Uz, Job was the name to him; and that man was true, unblemished, a sincere man, and uprignt, and fearing God, at a distance from every wicked thing.
JOB 1:2 And there were to him seven sons and three daughters.
JOB 1:3 And his animals were - seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred teams of oxen, and five hundred grazing female donkeys, and for service exceedingly many. And there were great works attributed to him upon the land. And that man was great of the ones from the east sun.
JOB 1:4 And his sons going to one another prepared a banquet, each of his own day, taking along together also their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.
JOB 1:5 And whenever they completed the days of the banquet, Job sent and purified them, rising up in the morning, and offering for them a sacrifice according to their number. For Job said, Lest at any time my sons sinned and raved against God with their heart. Thus then Job did all the days.
JOB 1:6 And it came to pass this day, and behold, the sons of God came to stand before the LORD, and the devil came in the midst of them.
JOB 1:7 And the LORD said to the devil, From what place have you come? And the devil answering to the LORD, said, Going around the earth, and walking about the place at hand under heaven.
JOB 1:8 And the LORD said to him, Have you been attentive then in your consideration to my attendant Job, that there is not one likened to him of the ones upon the earth, a blameless man, a man sincere and upright and fearing God, at a distance from every wicked thing?
JOB 1:9 And the devil answered, and said, Before the LORD, does Job freely fear God?
JOB 1:10 Have you not enclosed him, and the things inside his household, and the things outside? And all of the things being to him round about - the works of his hands you blessed, and you made his cattle many upon the earth.
JOB 1:11 But send your hand, and touch all which he has, and assuredly he will rave in your face against you.
JOB 1:12 Then the LORD said to the devil, Behold, all as much as is his I put into your hand; but he himself you shall not touch. And the devil went forth from the LORD.
JOB 1:13 And it was on this day the sons of Job and his daughters were drinking wine in the house of their elder brother.
JOB 1:14 And behold, a messenger came to Job, and said to him, The teams of oxen were plowing, and the female donkeys were grazing next to them.
JOB 1:15 And Sabeans fell upon and captured them, and the servants they killed by swords. And I alone escaped, and I came to report to you.
JOB 1:16 Yet speaking this, there came another, and said to Job, Fire from God fell from out of the heaven and incinerated the sheep, and the shepherds were devoured up in like manner; and having escaped, I alone came to report to you.
JOB 1:17 While speaking this, there came another messenger, and said to Job, The Chaldeans put three companies, and encircled the camels, and captured them; and the servants they killed by swords; and I alone escaped, and I came to report to you.
JOB 1:18 While this one was speaking, another messenger came, saying to Job, Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking with their elder brother.
JOB 1:19 Suddenly a great wind came upon them from out of the wilderness, and it touched the four corners of their house, and the house fell upon your children, and they came to an end; and I alone escaped, and I came to report to you.
JOB 1:20 Thus rising up, Job tore up his garments, and sheared the hair of his head, and falling to the ground did obeisance.
JOB 1:21 And said, I myself came forth naked from out of my mother's belly, and naked I shall go forth there. The LORD gave, the LORD removed, as to the LORD it seemed good, so also it came to pass. May the name of the LORD be blessed.
JOB 1:22 In all these things coming to pass against him, in nothing Job sinned before the LORD, and he imputed not folly to God.
JOB 2:1 And it came to pass as this day occurred, and the sons of God came to stand before the LORD. And the devil came in the midst of them to stand before the LORD.
JOB 2:2 And the LORD said to the devil, From what place come you? Then the devil said before the LORD, Traveling over the place under heaven, and walking about the whole place at hand.
JOB 2:3 And the LORD said to the devil, Have you taken heed then to my attendant Job, that there is not according to him of the ones upon the earth, a man not wicked, true, blameless, godly, and at a distance from all evil? But still he has innocence, but you spoke to destroy his substance without cause.
JOB 2:4 But the devil undertaking, said to the LORD, Skin for skin, and all as much as exists to a man he will give for his life.
JOB 2:5 But not in fact - but you send your hand to touch his bones and his flesh, assuredly he will rave in your face.
JOB 2:6 And the LORD said to the devil, Behold, I deliver him to you, only you guard his life!
JOB 2:7 And the devil went forth from the LORD, and smote Job with a severe sore from feet unto head.
JOB 2:8 And he took to himself a potsherd so as to scrape the pus; and he sat down within the ashes.
JOB 2:9 And his wife said to him, Until how long will you persevere? But speak any word to God, and come to an end!
JOB 2:10 And he, looking to her, said, Why as one of the foolish women did you speak? If we looked for the good things from out of the hand of the LORD, shall we not endure the bad things? In all these things coming to pass to him, not one thing Job sinned with his lips before the LORD.
JOB 2:11 And his three friends hearing all the bad things coming upon him, came each from their own place to him. Eliphaz the Temanite - a king, Baldad the Shuhite - a sovereign, Zophar the Minaean - a king. And they came to him with one accord to comfort and visit him.
JOB 2:12 And seeing him at a distance, they did not recognize him. And yelling with a great voice, they wept, each tearing his own apparel, and strewing earth.
JOB 2:13 And they sat beside him seven days and seven nights, and not one of them spoke to him a word; for they saw the awful calamity being, and it was exceedingly great.
JOB 3:1 And after this Job opened his mouth, and cursed his day,
JOB 3:2 saying,
JOB 3:3 Maythe day in which I was born be destroyed, and the night in which they said, Behold, a male.
JOB 3:4 May that night be darkness, and may the LORD not search it out from above, nor may brightness come into it.
JOB 3:5 But may darkness and the shadow of death take it; may dimness come upon it; and may that day be disturbed.
JOB 3:6 And that night, may darkness have carried it away; may it not be for the days of the year, nor may it be counted for the days of the months.
JOB 3:7 But may that night be grief, and may gladness not come upon it, nor a cause for joy.
JOB 3:8 But may the one cursing that day curse it - the ones being about to awaken Leviathan.
JOB 3:9 May the stars of that night be enveloped in darkness, and not remain, and not come for illumination; and may the arising Hesperus not be seen.
JOB 3:10 For it did not close up the gates of my mother's womb, for it would have dismissed misery from my eyes.
JOB 3:11 For why in the belly did I not come to an end? but why came I forth from the womb, and was not straightway destroyed?
JOB 3:12 And why did the knees meet me? and why did I nurse on the breasts?
JOB 3:13 Now going to bed I should be stilled; and having slept, rested;
JOB 3:14 with the kings, counselors of the earth, who pranced with blades;
JOB 3:15 or with rulers, whose gold was abundant, who filled their houses with silver;
JOB 3:16 or as if a miscarriage going forth from out of a mother's womb, or as infants who beheld not light.
JOB 3:17 There the impious ones ceased the rage of anger; there the exhausted in the body are rested.
JOB 3:18 But with one accord the ones being boundprisoners. hear not the voice of the tribute-gatherer.
JOB 3:19 Small and great are there, even the attendant being in awe of his master.
JOB 3:20 For why has light been given to the ones in bitterness, and life to the souls in griefs?
JOB 3:21 The ones longing for death, and attain not; rooting it up as if for treasures;
JOB 3:22 and they become overjoyed if they should attain it. Death to a man is rest.
JOB 3:23 The way was not concealed, for God hemmed in against him.
JOB 3:24 For moaning comes to me before my grain, and shall be poured as waters roaring.
JOB 3:25 For the fear which I thought about, came to me; and which I had in awe, met with me.
JOB 3:26 Neither was I at peace, nor still, nor I rested; but wrath came to me.
JOB 4:1 And undertaking, Eliphaz the Temanite says,
JOB 4:2 If we take to speak to you, will you tire? But the strength of your words, who shall endure?
JOB 4:3 For since you admonished many, and comforted the hands of the weak,
JOB 4:4 and also raised up the ones being weak with words, and you invested courage to the ones powerless in knees,
JOB 4:5 but now misery comes upon you, and touched you; and now you are hurried.
JOB 4:6 Is it not that your fear is in folly, and your hope, and the evil of your way?
JOB 4:7 Do you remember then who being pure was destroyed? or when the true ones were destroyed entirely from the root?
JOB 4:8 As in which manner I beheld the ones plowing the unnatural places, then the ones sowing them shall harvest griefs for themselves.
JOB 4:9 By the order of the LORD they shall perish, and by the breath of his anger they shall be obliterated.
JOB 4:10 The strength of a lion, and a voice of a lioness, and a prancing of dragons shall be extinguished.
JOB 4:11 A small lion is destroyed by not having game, and cubs of lions forsook one another.
JOB 4:12 And to me it was spoken clandestinely in stealth; shall not my ear receive extraordinary things by him.
JOB 4:13 In amazement from my nightly vision falling fear upon men,
JOB 4:14 that a shuddering awe met with me, and trembling, and my bones shook greatly.
JOB 4:15 And a spirit came upon my face, and my hair and flesh shuddered.
JOB 4:16 I rose up, and knew not; I saw, and there was not an appearance before my eyes, but only a breeze, and I heard a voice, saying,
JOB 4:17 For what, Shall a mortal be pure before the LORD? or shall a man be blameless from his works?
JOB 4:18 If even his servants he trusts not, and even considers his angels as crooked in what he thinks about,
JOB 4:19 then the ones dwelling in houses of clay, of whom also they are from out of the same mortar - he smites them in the manner of a moth.
JOB 4:20 And from morning until evening they are no longer; by their not being able to help themselves they themselves perish.
JOB 4:21 You raised up together their vestige in them; they perished by their not having wisdom.
JOB 5:1 But call, if any one will hearken to you; or if you shall see any holy angels.
JOB 5:2 For even anger does away a foolish one, and zeal puts to death one having wandered.
JOB 5:3 And I have seen foolish ones laying root; and I cursed their attractiveness immediately.
JOB 5:4 May their sons be at a distance from safety, and be crushed at the doors of lesser men, and there shall not be one rescuing.
JOB 5:5 For those things which they harvested, one hungering shall eat; but they shall be carried to ones armed; may their strength be siphoned off.
JOB 5:6 For toil can not come forth from out of the earth, nor shall misery sprout up from out of mountains.
JOB 5:7 But a man is born to toil, and the young eagles to fly the high places;
JOB 5:8 but nevertheless, I shall beseech of the LORD, and I shall call upon the LORD the master of all;
JOB 5:9 the one doing great things, and untraceable; honorable things also, and extraordinary, which there is not a number;
JOB 5:10 the one giving rain upon the earth, sending water upon the place under heaven;
JOB 5:11 the one appointing the humble unto the height, and raising up the ones perishing;
JOB 5:12 effacing counsels of clever ones, that in no way should their hands perform true;
JOB 5:13 the one overtaking the wise ones with the intellect; and the counsel of the crafty ones he amazes.
JOB 5:14 By day darkness shall meet them, and at midday may they grope equally as at night.
JOB 5:15 And may they perish in war; and may the powerless come forth from out of the hand of the mighty one.
JOB 5:16 And may there be hope to the poor; but may the mouth of the unjust be obstructed.
JOB 5:17 And blessed be a man whom the LORD reproved, and does not refuse the admonition of the almighty.
JOB 5:18 For he causes one to ache, and again he restores; he smites, and his hands heal.
JOB 5:19 Six times he rescues you from out of your distresses; and in the seventh time in no way will he touch you for bad.
JOB 5:20 In famine he will rescue you from out of death; and in war he will untie you from out of the hand of iron.
JOB 5:21 He shall hide you from the whip of the tongue; and in no way shall you be fearful from the coming evils.
JOB 5:22 The unjust and lawless you shall ridicule; and from wild beasts in no way shall you be fearful.
JOB 5:23 For the beasts of the wild shall make peace with you.
JOB 5:24 Then you shall know that your house shall be at peace; and he shall visit your beauty, and in no way should it have sinned.
JOB 5:25 And you shall know that your seed shall be many, and your progeny will be as the abundant herbage of the field.
JOB 5:26 And you shall come unto the grave as grain in season, according to the time of harvesting; or as a heap of the threshing-floor according to the hour of its being collected.
JOB 5:27 Behold, these things thus we tracked out, these things are what we have heard; but you, know in yourself if you acted in anything!
JOB 6:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 6:2 For if anyone stationing weight would set my wrath, and lift my griefs onto a yoke balance scale, they woud be in one accord.
JOB 6:3 For indeed of the sand of the coast it will be heavier - upon this my sayings were trampled.
JOB 6:4 For arrows of the worthy one are in my body, which their rage drinks up my blood. Whenever I begin to speak, they sting me.
JOB 6:5 For what - will the wild donkey ineffectually cry out if he is not seeking grain? and shall then the voice of the ox tear loose at the stable while having foods?
JOB 6:6 Shall bread be eaten without salt? and is there taste in empty words?
JOB 6:7 For my soul is not able to cease; for groaning I see my grain as the scent of a lion.
JOB 6:8 For if only he might give, and my requests might come; and that the LORD might grant my hope.
JOB 6:9 Beginning, let the LORD pierce; but let me not be done away with unto the end!
JOB 6:10 But may my city be the grave, upon which I leaped upon the walls; upon it I shall not spare; for I lied not about the holy sayings of my God.
JOB 6:11 For what is my strength that I remain? or what is my time that my soul endures?
JOB 6:12 Is my strength the strength of stones? or are my flesh members of brass?
JOB 6:13 or not upon him to yield? But help was departed from me;
JOB 6:14 mercy is forbidden me; and the visit of the LORD overlooked me.
JOB 6:15 My brothers looked not at me; they went by me as if a rushing stream dissipating or as if a wave.
JOB 6:16 The ones who revered me, now fall upon me; as if snow or ice banked up,
JOB 6:17 and as the melting away by the coming of heat, it was not recognized of where it was.
JOB 6:18 So I also was left by all; and I am destroyed, and I became homeless.
JOB 6:19 Behold the ways of the Temanites - O ones seeing clearly the short cuts of the Sabaeans.
JOB 6:20 And the ones in cities shall owe for shame, and the things relied upon there.
JOB 6:21 But nevertheless, even you mounted against me mercilessly; so that beholding my wound, you are fearful.
JOB 6:22 For what - did I ask anything of you, or do I want strength from you,
JOB 6:23 so as to deliver me from enemies, or to rescue me from out of the hand of mighty ones?
JOB 6:24 Teach me, and I will be silent! If in anything I have wandered, expound to me!
JOB 6:25 But as it seems, the words of a true man are vile; for I do not ask strength from you.
JOB 6:26 Nor will your reproof cause me to cease my words; for neither your utterance of a word will I endure.
JOB 6:27 Besides that, you fall upon an orphan, and you assail against your friend.
JOB 6:28 But now, having looked into your faces, I will not lie.
JOB 6:29 Sit indeed, and may there not be anything unjust, and again come together with the just one!
JOB 6:30 For there is not an unjust thing on my tongue; or, does not my throat meditate on understanding?
JOB 7:1 In either way is not the existence of man upon the earth a trial, and his life as the daily hireling,
JOB 7:2 or as an attendant in awe of his master, and attaining for shade, or as if a hireling awaiting his wage?
JOB 7:3 So I also waited months in vain; and nights of griefs are given to me.
JOB 7:4 When I should go to bed, I say, When will it be the day? And whenever I rise up, again I say, When will it be evening? And I am full of griefs, from evening unto morning.
JOB 7:5 And my body is befouled in rottenness of worms, and I melt away as clods of earth from scraping pus.
JOB 7:6 And my existence is lighter than speech, and has perished in vain hope.
JOB 7:7 Remember then that my breath is life; and no longer shall my eye return back to behold good.
JOB 7:8 The eye of the one seeing me shall not look round about; your eyes are on me, and I am not.
JOB 7:9 I am as a cloud being cleared away from the heaven; for if a man should go down into Hades, no longer in any way should he ascend;
JOB 7:10 and neither in any way shall he return unto his own house, nor shall his place in any way recognize him any more.
JOB 7:11 Nevertheless then, nor will I spare my mouth; I will speak being in distress of my spirit; I will open the bitterness of my soul being held in.
JOB 7:12 Is it that I am a sea or a dragon, that you delegated a guard over me?
JOB 7:13 I said that, My bed shall comfort me, and I shall offer to myself my own word in my bed.
JOB 7:14 You frighten me with dreams; and with visions you strike terror in me.
JOB 7:15 You will dismiss my soul from my spirit, and my bones from death.
JOB 7:16 For I shall not live into the eon, that I should patiently wait. Depart from me, for my livelihood is empty!
JOB 7:17 For what is man that you magnified him? or that you heed the mind in him?
JOB 7:18 or will you make him a visit until the morning? and shall you judge him for rest?
JOB 7:19 For how long do you not allow me, nor let me go, until whenever I should swallow down my spittle in grief?
JOB 7:20 If I sinned, how am I able to act out against you, O one having knowledge of the mind of men? Why did you establish me as your accuser, and I am a load unto you?
JOB 7:21 And why did you not appoint of my lawlessness to forgetfulness, and for a cleansing of my sin? But now into the earth I shall go forth, and I am no longer for rising early.
JOB 8:1 And undertaking, Baldad the Shuhite, says,
JOB 8:2 Till when shall you speak these things by a talkative spirit of your mouth?
JOB 8:3 Will the LORD transgress judging? or the one making all things disturb the just one?
JOB 8:4 If your sons sin before him, he sent them away in hand because of their lawlessness.
JOB 8:5 But you, rise early to the LORD almighty, beseeching him!
JOB 8:6 If you are pure and true, he will heed your supplication, and he will restore to you the habitation of righteousness.
JOB 8:7 It will be then that as your first shall be little, yet your last will be an untold amount.
JOB 8:8 For ask the first generation, and trace according to the race of the fathers!
JOB 8:9 For we are of yesterday, and have not known; for our existence upon the earth is a shadow.
JOB 8:10 Shall these not teach you, and announce to you, and from out of the heart lead forth sayings?
JOB 8:11 Does papyrus flourish without water? or shall the flowering rush rise up high without drinking?
JOB 8:12 Yet being upon the root, and in no way harvested, shall it not be dried before the drinking of all pasturage?
JOB 8:13 So therefore will it be for the last of all the ones forgetting the LORD; for the hope of an impious one shall perish.
JOB 8:14 For his house will be uninhabited, and his tent will turn out to be as for a spider's web.
JOB 8:15 If one should overlook his house, in no way shall it stand; even grasping it, in no way shall it remain.
JOB 8:16 For it is wet under the sun, and his tender branch shall come forth out of his rottenness.
JOB 8:17 Upon a gathering of stones he goes to bed, and in the midst of gravel he shall live.
JOB 8:18 And if the place should swallow him, it shall lie to him, saying, Have you not seen such a thing?
JOB 8:19 For the undoing of an impious one is such, and from out of the earth another shall sprout up.
JOB 8:20 For the LORD in no way will undo the guileless, and every gift of an impious one he will not receive.
JOB 8:21 But the mouth of true ones he will fill with laughter, and their lips with acknowledgment.
JOB 8:22 But their enemies shall put on shame; and the habitation of an impious one will not be.
JOB 9:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 9:2 In truth I know that it is so; for how shall there be a just mortal before the LORD?
JOB 9:3 For if he should want to enter into judgment with him, in no way shall God obey him, so that he shall not contradict with one word of his from out of a thousand.
JOB 9:4 For he is wise in thought, fortified also, and great. Who being hard before him even made peace?
JOB 9:5 The mountains of old even do not know the one eradicating them in anger;
JOB 9:6 the one shaking the thing under heaven from its foundations, and the columns of it shake;
JOB 9:7 the one speaking to the sun, and it does not rise; and accordingly he seals up the stars;
JOB 9:8 the one stretching the heaven alone, and walking upon the sea as upon a floor;
JOB 9:9 the one making Pleiades and Hesperus and Arcturus, and the chambers of the south;
JOB 9:10 the one doing great and untraceable things; honorable also, and extraordinary things which there is not a number.
JOB 9:11 If he should pass over me, in no way shall I behold it; and if he should go by me, neither thus I knew it.
JOB 9:12 If he dismisses, who returns? or who shall say to him, What did you do?
JOB 9:13 God will not turn away the anger, but under him the sea-monsters under heaven were bent.
JOB 9:14 But then should he obey me, or shall he litigate my things?
JOB 9:15 For even if I should be just, he shall not listen to me. His equity I will beseech.
JOB 9:16 And if I should call, and he should hearken, I do not trust that he has listened to my voice.
JOB 9:17 He should not obliterate me by dimness; but many of my bruises he has made without cause.
JOB 9:18 For he allows me not to breathe, and he filled me with bitterness.
JOB 9:19 For indeed by strength he prevails. Who then shall oppose his judgment?
JOB 9:20 For if I might be just, my mouth will be impious; and though I might be blameless, I shall turn out perverse.
JOB 9:21 For whether I was impious, I do not know in the soul; besides, life is removed from me.
JOB 9:22 Therefore I said, he destroys the great and mighty one in wrath.
JOB 9:23 For the vile ones are extraordinary in death, but the just ones are ridiculed,
JOB 9:24 for they are delivered into the hands of an impious one; he covers up the faces of her judges; but if not he, who is it?
JOB 9:25 But my existence is lighter than a runner; my days ran away, and they knew it not.
JOB 9:26 Or also is there a trace of ships in the way? or a trace of an eagle flying seeking prey?
JOB 9:27 For if also I said, I shall forget about speaking, I will stoop down my countenance and I will moan.
JOB 9:28 I shake in all my limbs, for I know that you will not let me be innocent.
JOB 9:29 But since I am impious, for why is this I labor in vain?
JOB 9:30 For if I should wash myself off with snow, and should clear away my hands clean,
JOB 9:31 fittingly in my filth you dipped me, and my apparel abhorred me.
JOB 9:32 For you are not a man like me, with whom I can judge by comparison, that we should come with one accord for judgment.
JOB 9:33 If indeed our mediator was present, and the one reproving, and the one hearing between both,
JOB 9:34 let him dismiss the rod from me, and let not the fear of him whirl about;
JOB 9:35 and in no way shall I fear, but I will speak; for I am not thus conscious of guilt.
JOB 10:1 Being weary in my soul, in moaning I will let loose upon myself my sayings; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul, being constrained.
JOB 10:2 And I will say to the LORD, Teach me not to be impious! And why have you so judged me?
JOB 10:3 Or is it good to you that I should transgress? that I should forbid the works of your hands? and did you heed the counsel of impious ones?
JOB 10:4 Or as a mortal sees - do you look? or as a man sees - shall you see?
JOB 10:5 Or your existence - is it mankind? or your years - a man's?
JOB 10:6 For you searched out my lawlessnesses, and you traced my sins.
JOB 10:7 For you know that I did not act impious; but who is the one rescuing from out of your hands?
JOB 10:8 Your hands shaped me and made me; after these things in turning you smote me.
JOB 10:9 Remember that you shaped me of clay, and unto the earth again you return me.
JOB 10:10 Or did you not extract me as milk, and curdled me equal to cheese?
JOB 10:11 But skin and meat you put on me, and with bones and nerves you entwined me.
JOB 10:12 And life and mercy you put upon me, and of your overseeing you guarded my spirit.
JOB 10:13 Having these things in yourself, I know that you are able to do all things; and not one thing is impossible with you.
JOB 10:14 For if I should sin, you guard me; but from lawlessness you have not appointed me innocent.
JOB 10:15 For if I should be impious, alas. But if I might be just, I am not able to lift up the head, for I am full of dishonor.
JOB 10:16 For I am caught as a lion for slaughter; and again in turning you destroy me awfully;
JOB 10:17 renewing upon me my chastisement; and you dealt with me in great anger, and brought trials against me.
JOB 10:18 Why then in the belly did you lead me out, and I did not die, that an eye did not see me,
JOB 10:19 and that I became as if one not being? For why was I not dismissed from the womb unto the tomb?
JOB 10:20 Or is not the time of my existence little? Allow me to rest a little,
JOB 10:21 before my going from where I shall not return, unto a land dark and dim;
JOB 10:22 unto a land of eternal darkness, where there is not brightness, nor seeing the life of mortals!
JOB 11:1 And undertaking, Sophar the Minean says,
JOB 11:2 The one saying many things also shall listen in turn; or does the well-spoken imagine himself to be just? Blessed be the one born of woman short-lived.
JOB 11:3 Become not many in words; for there is not one judging you by comparison.
JOB 11:4 For do not say that, I am pure in the works, and blameless before him.
JOB 11:5 But how ever is the LORD to speak to you, and open his lips with you;
JOB 11:6 then he shall announce to you the power of wisdom, that it will be double to the things of yours. And then you shall know that what is worthy to you resulted from the LORD whom you have sinned.
JOB 11:7 Or will you find the trace of the LORD? or, did you arrive unto the latter end which the almighty prepared?
JOB 11:8 Heaven is high; and what will you do? and of the things deeper in Hades; what do you know?
JOB 11:9 or longer than the measure of the earth, or the breadth of the sea.
JOB 11:10 And if he shall eradicate all things, who will say to him, What did you do?
JOB 11:11 For he knows the works of the lawless; and beholding he shall not overlook the things out of place.
JOB 11:12 But man otherwise shall be over-confident with words; but a mortal born of a woman is equal to a recluse donkey.
JOB 11:13 For if you established your heart clean, and turned up and opened your hands to him;
JOB 11:14 if there is any lawless thing in your hands, cause it to be at a distance! and let not injustice lodge in your habitation!
JOB 11:15 For thus your face shall illuminate as if pure water; and you shall strip off filth, and in no way shall you be fearful.
JOB 11:16 And you shall forget trouble as a wave going by; and you shall not be terrified.
JOB 11:17 And your vow will be as Hesperus; and from midday life shall arise to you.
JOB 11:18 And you shall be complying, for it is hope to you; and from anxiety and bewilderment peace shall appear to you.
JOB 11:19 For you shall be tranquil, and there will not be one waging war against you; and turning, many will beseech you.
JOB 11:20 But deliverance shall leave them, for their hope is destruction; and the eyes of impious ones shall melt away.
JOB 12:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 12:2 So then you are men; then wisdom comes to an end with you?
JOB 12:3 There is also to me indeed a heart like yours.
JOB 12:4 For a just man, and blameless, was born for an object for taunts.
JOB 12:5 For at an appointed time man had been prepared to fall under others; also for his house to be pillaged by lawless ones. But let not however any one being wicked rely on to be considered innocent -
JOB 12:6 as many as provoke the LORD to anger, as if there will not also be their chastisement.
JOB 12:7 But indeed ask the four-footed beasts, if they should speak to you; or birds of the heaven, if they were able to report to you!
JOB 12:8 And let the earth tell in detail, if it should expound to you; and the fishes of the sea shall describe to you!
JOB 12:9 Who knew not among all these that the hand of the LORD made these?
JOB 12:10 Except in his hand is the life of all of the living, and the breath of every man.
JOB 12:11 For the ear indeed scrutinizes words, and the throat tastes grains.
JOB 12:12 In a long time is wisdom; and in a long existence is higher knowledge.
JOB 12:13 By him is wisdom and power; with him counsel and understanding.
JOB 12:14 If he should throw down, who shall build up? If he locks against man, who opens?
JOB 12:15 If he should restrain the water, he shall dry the earth; and if he should slacken, he destroys it by eradication.
JOB 12:16 By him is might and strength; in him is higher knowledge and understanding;
JOB 12:17 leading counselors as captives, and judges of the earth he amazes;
JOB 12:18 sitting kings upon thrones, and ties a belt on their loins;
JOB 12:19 sending priests as captives, and the mighty ones of the earth he eradicates;
JOB 12:20 reconciling lips of the trustworthy, and the understanding of the elders he knew;
JOB 12:21 pouring out dishonor upon rulers, but the humble he healed;
JOB 12:22 uncovering the deeps from out of darkness, and he leads the shadow of death into light;
JOB 12:23 wandering nations, and destroying them; prostrating nations, and directing them;
JOB 12:24 reconciling hearts of rulers of the earth, but wandering them in a way which they knew not.
JOB 12:25 May they handle darkness, and not light; may they be wandering as if one being intoxicated.
JOB 13:1 Behold, my eye has seen these things, and my ear has heard.
JOB 13:2 And I know as much as even you know; and I am not more senseless than you.
JOB 13:3 But nevertheless, I will speak to the LORD; and I will reprove before him, if he should be willing.
JOB 13:4 But you are unjust physicians, and are all bad healers.
JOB 13:5 But it may be good for you to be silent, and it shall turn out to you for wisdom.
JOB 13:6 Hear the reproof of my mouth, and heed the judgment of my lips!
JOB 13:7 Is it not against the LORD you speak, and before him you utter a sound of deceit?
JOB 13:8 Or will you keep back? But you yourselves have become judges!
JOB 13:9 Is it good if he should track you? for as if the ones doing all things shall you be added to him?
JOB 13:10 In not one thing less shall he reprove you; but if also you shall secretly wonder at persons,
JOB 13:11 is it not in his awfulness that he shall whirl you, and fear of him shall fall upon you?
JOB 13:12 But your prancing shall turn out equal to ashes, and the body to clay.
JOB 13:13 Be silent, that I shall speak, and rest my rage!
JOB 13:14 Taking my flesh in my teeth, even I shall put my life in my hand.
JOB 13:15 Though the mighty one should lay hands against me, since even he begins, in fact I shall speak and reprove before him.
JOB 13:16 And this shall result in deliverance to me; for treachery shall not enter before him.
JOB 13:17 Hear, hear my words, for I will announce in your hearing!
JOB 13:18 Behold, I am near my judgment; I know that I shall appear just.
JOB 13:19 For who is the one passing judgment to me, that now I shall be silent and shall cease?
JOB 13:20 But two things you shall furnish to me, then from your presence I will not hide.
JOB 13:21 Let the hand be at a distance from me, and the fear of you - let me not be struck with terror!
JOB 13:22 Then you shall call, and I will hearken to you; or you shall speak, and I will give you an answer.
JOB 13:23 How many are my sins, and my lawless deeds? Teach me what they are!
JOB 13:24 Why do you hide from me, and esteem me contrary to you?
JOB 13:25 Or as a leaf moving by a wind, will you be cautious? Or as grass borne by a wind, will you be adverse to me?
JOB 13:26 For you wrote down bad things against me, and you invested to me youthful sin.
JOB 13:27 And you put my foot under restraint, and you watched all my works; and into the roots of my feet you attained.
JOB 13:28 I am the one turning old equal to a leather bag, or as a moth-eaten garment.
JOB 14:1 For a mortal born of a woman is short-lived and full of wrath.
JOB 14:2 Or as the flower blooming he falls off; and he runs away as a shadow, and in no way stands.
JOB 14:3 Have you not also made an account of this, and made this to enter before you in judgment?
JOB 14:4 For who will be clean from filth? but no one.
JOB 14:5 If even his existence be one day upon the earth, yet his months are counted by you. For a time you appointed, and no way shall he pass beyond.
JOB 14:6 Separate from him that he should be still, and he shall think well of the existence as the hireling!
JOB 14:7 For there is hope to a tree; for if it should be cut down, still it will bloom again, and its tender branch in no way shall fail.
JOB 14:8 For if its root should grow old in the earth, and its trunk should come to an end in the rock;
JOB 14:9 from the scent of water it shall bloom, and shall produce a harvest as if newly planted.
JOB 14:10 But a man coming to an end is undone; and a mortal falling is no longer.
JOB 14:11 For in time a sea is depleted, and a river being made desolate is dried up.
JOB 14:12 But man going to sleep shall certainly not rise up, until whenever the heaven in no way shall be sewn together, and they shall not wake up from their sleep.
JOB 14:13 For ought in Hades you guarded me, and hid me until whenever your anger should cease; and should have ordered to me a time in which you shall make mention of me.
JOB 14:14 For if a man should die, shall he live again having completed the days of his existence? I shall wait until I should exist again.
JOB 14:15 Then you shall call, and I will hearken to you; but the works of your hands do not undo.
JOB 14:16 But you counted my practices, and in no way shall there go by you even one of my sins.
JOB 14:17 And you set a seal upon my lawless deeds in a bag, and marked if in anything I violated unwillingly.
JOB 14:18 And moreover a mountain falling shall fall into ruin, and a rock shall be worn old from out of its place;
JOB 14:19 waters ground stones smooth, and waters flooded the steeps of the embankment of the earth; and you destroyed the endurance of man.
JOB 14:20 You thrust him through unto the end, and he is undone; you set your face against him, and send him out.
JOB 14:21 And though there are many of his sons being born, he knows it not; if also they become few, he has not knowledge.
JOB 14:22 But his flesh aches, and his soul mourns.
JOB 15:1 And undertaking, Eliphaz the Temanite says,
JOB 15:2 Is it that a wise one will give an answer of an understanding spirit, and filled up the misery of the womb,
JOB 15:3 reproving in sayings with words which must not be spoken, in which no one benefits?
JOB 15:4 And did you not undo fear, and complete such sayings before the LORD?
JOB 15:5 You are liable by the sayings of your mouth, of which you litigated sayings of mighty ones.
JOB 15:6 May your mouth reprove you, and not I. And your lips, may they bear witness against you.
JOB 15:7 For what, are you the first man born? or were you banked up before the hills?
JOB 15:8 Have you heard the arranged order of the LORD? and unto you has wisdom arrived?
JOB 15:9 For what do you know which we do not know? or what do you perceive which we do not also?
JOB 15:10 And indeed an elder, and indeed an old one is among us, more weighty than your father, in days.
JOB 15:11 You have been whipped but little for your sins, but greatly above measure have you spoken.
JOB 15:12 What did your heart dare? or what have your eyes added to see,
JOB 15:13 that your rage tore before the LORD, and such sayings led forth from out of your mouth?
JOB 15:14 For who, being a mortal, still will be blameless? or who is born of a woman being as a just one?
JOB 15:15 Forasmuch as he trusts not the holy ones, and the heaven is not pure before him;
JOB 15:16 alas then, man is abhorrent and unclean, drinking iniquity equal to a beverage.
JOB 15:17 But I will report to you - hear me! What indeed I have seen, I will report to you;
JOB 15:18 what the wise ones shall say, and what was not hidden from their fathers.
JOB 15:19 To them alone the earth was given, and not a foreigner came upon them.
JOB 15:20 All the existence of an impious one is spent in bewilderment; and the years being given to the mighty one are counted;
JOB 15:21 and his fear is in his ears. Whenever the impious should seem already at peace, his undoing shall come.
JOB 15:22 Let him not trust to return from darkness, for he has been given charge already unto the hands of iron.
JOB 15:23 And he has been delegated for the grain of vultures, and he knows in himself that he waits for being a corpse; and a dark day shall whirl him away;
JOB 15:24 and distress and affliction shall hold him down. His falling down is as a commandant of the front rank,
JOB 15:25 for he has lifted hands against the LORD, and before the almighty he stiffened his neck.
JOB 15:26 And he ran against his insolence with the thickness of the back of his shield.
JOB 15:27 For he covered his face with his fat, and made a cleft upon the thighs.
JOB 15:28 And may he be lodged in desolate cities, and enter uninhabited houses; and what these prepared, others shall carry away.
JOB 15:29 Nor shall he be enriched, nor shall his possessions remain. In no way shall he cast a shadow upon the earth,
JOB 15:30 nor shall he flee from the darkness. May wind wither his bud, and may his flower fall off.
JOB 15:31 Let him not trust that he will remain behind, for emptiness shall result to him.
JOB 15:32 His pruning shall be corrupted before its season, and his tender branch no way shall become dense.
JOB 15:33 And may he be gathered as an unripe grape before its season; and may he fall off as the flower of the olive.
JOB 15:34 For death is the testimony of an impious one, and fire shall burn the houses of the ones taking bribes.
JOB 15:35 And he shall conceive griefs in the womb, and there shall result unto him emptiness, and his belly shall endure deceit.
JOB 16:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 16:2 I have heard many such things - you are all bad comforters.
JOB 16:3 For what, is there order in words of wind? or what shall it trouble you that you answer?
JOB 16:4 I also could speak as you if indeed your life laid instead of my life. So then I shall assail against you with words, and I will shake my head as you.
JOB 16:5 And may that there be strength in my mouth, then I would not spare the movement of my lips.
JOB 16:6 For if I shall speak my wound shall not ache; and if also I keep silent, how less will I be pierced?
JOB 16:7 But now, he has made me exhausted, a festering moron, and it took hold of me.
JOB 16:8 For I became a testimony, and my lie rose up in me; according to my face it was answered.
JOB 16:9 In anger the one dealing with me cast me down; he gnashed against me with his teeth; the arrows of his marauders have fallen upon me;
JOB 16:10 he assailed me with the sharp points of his eyes; he smote me onto my knees, and with one accord they ran down upon me.
JOB 16:11 For the LORD delivered me into the hands of the unjust, and unto impious ones he tossed me.
JOB 16:12 Making peace he effaced me; taking me by the hair of the head he plucked it out; he placed me as if an exemplar.
JOB 16:13 They encircled me with lances, casting into my kidney, not sparing; they poured out my bile onto the earth.
JOB 16:14 They threw me down, downfall upon downfall; they ran against me prevailing.
JOB 16:15 They sewed sackcloth upon my hide, and my strength was extinguished in the ground.
JOB 16:16 My belly burns from weeping, and upon my eyelids a shadow of death.
JOB 16:17 And there was not one unjust thing in my hands, and my vow is pure.
JOB 16:18 O earth, you should not cover over the blood of my flesh, nor may there be a place for my cry.
JOB 16:19 And now, behold, my witness is in the heavens, and my joint witness is in the highest.
JOB 16:20 May my supplication arrive unto the LORD, and before him may my eye drip tears.
JOB 16:21 And may it be reproof to man before the LORD, and to a son of man to his neighbor.
JOB 16:22 But counted years have come; and in the way in which I shall not be returned I shall go.
JOB 17:1 I am destroyed, being borne by a wind; and I beseech a burial, and attain not.
JOB 17:2 In wearying I implore, for what shall I do? and strangers stole my possessions.
JOB 17:3 Who is this to my hand tied together?
JOB 17:4 For you hid their heart from intellect; on account of this, in no way shall you exalt them.
JOB 17:5 He shall announce evils in portion; and eyes upon sons were melted away.
JOB 17:6 But you appointed me for a common topic among the nations, and I resulted as laughter for them.
JOB 17:7 For my eyes are calloused from wrath; I have been assaulted greatly by all.
JOB 17:8 Wonder held true men over these things; and may a just one rise up against a lawbreaker.
JOB 17:9 But may the trustworthy hold his own way, and may the clean hands take courage.
JOB 17:10 But however, let all be established and come indeed, for I do not find among you a true one!
JOB 17:11 My days go by in groaning, and the articulations of my heart were torn.
JOB 17:12 I put night for day; the light is near from the face of darkness.
JOB 17:13 For if I remain, Hades is my house; and in dimness I will spread out my strewn bed.
JOB 17:14 I called upon death to be my father, and rottenness to be my mother and sister.
JOB 17:15 Where then is my hope? or shall I see my good?
JOB 17:16 or will they go down with me into Hades? or with one accord shall we go down unto the embankment grave.?
JOB 18:1 And undertaking, Baldad the Shuhite says,
JOB 18:2 Until when - will you not cease? Wait, so that also we should speak to these things!
JOB 18:3 Why as if four-footed beasts do we keep silent before you?
JOB 18:4 Anger has dealt with you. For what if you should die, will it be uninhabited under heaven? or shall mountains be eradicated from their foundations?
JOB 18:5 But the light of impious ones shall be extinguished, and their flame shall not turn out to be;
JOB 18:6 his light will be darkness in his habitation, and the lamp over him shall be extinguished;
JOB 18:7 may the least of men hunt his possessions, and may his counsel trip him;
JOB 18:8 and may his foot be put in a snare; may he be coiled in a net;
JOB 18:9 and may snares come upon him; ones thirsting shall grow strong against him;
JOB 18:10 his line is hidden in the earth, and the thing seizing him is upon the roads;
JOB 18:11 may griefs destroy him round about, and may many things come around his foot;
JOB 18:12 but in hunger an extraordinary severe downfall is prepared for him;
JOB 18:13 and may the soles of his feet be devoured, and death shall devour his beautiful things;
JOB 18:14 and may healing be torn from his habitation, and may he have himself distress by reason of a royal decree;
JOB 18:15 it shall encamp in his tent in his night; his beautiful things shall be scattered with sulphur;
JOB 18:16 his roots shall be dried from beneath, and on top his harvest shall fall;
JOB 18:17 may his memorial be destroyed from the earth, and what exists to his name upon the face outer;
JOB 18:18 may one thrust him from light unto darkness; and from the inhabitable world they displaced him;
JOB 18:19 he will not be well known among his people, nor will his house be preserved in the place under heaven;
JOB 18:20 but in the things of his others shall live; the last moaned for him, and the first had wonder.
JOB 18:21 These are the houses of the unjust, and this is the place of the ones not knowing the LORD.
JOB 19:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 19:2 For how long will you make my soul weary, and demolish me with words? Know only that the LORD did thus by me!
JOB 19:3 You speak ill of me. Not being ashamed by me, you press upon me.
JOB 19:4 Yes indeed, in truth I was misled, and delusion lodges in me to speak a word which must not be said - but my words mislead, and are not in time.
JOB 19:5 But alas, for you magnify yourselves against me, and you assail me in scorn.
JOB 19:6 Know then that the LORD is the one disturbing! And his fortress he raised up high against me.
JOB 19:7 Behold, I laugh at scorn, and I shall not speak; I shall have cried out, and not at all is there judgment.
JOB 19:8 I have been enclosed round about, and no way shall I pass over; he put darkness upon my face.
JOB 19:9 And the glory of mine he took off from me, and removed the crown from my head.
JOB 19:10 He pulled me apart round about, and I am set out; and he cut down my hope as if a tree.
JOB 19:11 And he treated me awfully in anger, and led me as if an enemy.
JOB 19:12 And with one accord his marauders came against me; in my ways ones lying in wait encircled me.
JOB 19:13 My brothers left me, they know strangers rather than me; and my friends have become unmerciful.
JOB 19:14 The ones near me pretend not to know me, and the ones knowing my name forgot me.
JOB 19:15 As for the neighbors of the house, and also my female attendants, I was foreign before them.
JOB 19:16 I called my attendant, and he obeyed not, and my mouth beseeched him.
JOB 19:17 And I entreated my wife; and I called - flattering the sons of my concubines.
JOB 19:18 But they undid me into the eon; whenever I rise up, they speak against me.
JOB 19:19 The ones knowing me abhorred me; those whom indeed I had loved rose up against me.
JOB 19:20 My flesh festers in my skin, and the things of my bones are held in teeth.
JOB 19:21 Show mercy on me, show mercy on me, O friends! for it is the hand of the LORD touching me.
JOB 19:22 And why do you pursue me as also the LORD, and you are not filled up with my flesh?
JOB 19:23 For what that my words might be given to be written, and to put them in a scroll for the eon;
JOB 19:24 written with a stylus of iron and on lead, or being engraved on a rock.
JOB 19:25 For I know that the one being about to enfeeble me is everlasting upon the earth,
JOB 19:26 to raise up my skin being fatigued by these things. For by the LORD these things were exhausted on me;
JOB 19:27 which I myself am conscious of, which my eye has seen, and not another; but all has been exhausted on me in my bosom.
JOB 19:28 But if even you shall say, What shall we say before him, and so find the root of the matter in him?
JOB 19:29 Venerate even to yourselves from a covering! For rage shall come upon the lawless ones, and then they shall know where their material is.
JOB 20:1 And undertaking, Sophar the Minean, says,
JOB 20:2 Not so far have I undertook to contradict you in these things, and neither do you perceive more than I.
JOB 20:3 I will hearken to instruction for making me ashamed; and the spirit of understanding answers to me.
JOB 20:4 Have you not known these things from the yet of which time man was put upon the earth?
JOB 20:5 For gladness of impious ones is an extraordinary downfall; and a cause for joy of lawbreakers is destruction.
JOB 20:6 If his gifts should ascend into heaven, and his sacrifice should touch the clouds;
JOB 20:7 for whenever he should seem already firmly fixed, then he shall perish unto the end; and the ones knowing him shall say, Where is he?
JOB 20:8 as if a dream spreading forth, in no way shall he be found; so he flys as if a nightly manifestation;
JOB 20:9 the eye overlooked, and proceeds not, and his place no longer pays attention to him;
JOB 20:10 may his inferiors destroy his sons, and may his hands light the fire of griefs;
JOB 20:11 his bones were filled with the vigor of his youth, and it shall go to bed with him upon the embankment grave.;
JOB 20:12 though evil should be sweet in his mouth, he shall hide it under his tongue;
JOB 20:13 he shall not spare it, and will not abandon it, but he brings it in the midst of his throat;
JOB 20:14 and no way shall he be able to help himself - the bile of an asp is in his belly;
JOB 20:15 riches unjustly brought together shall be vomited forth; from out of his house an angel shall drag him away;
JOB 20:16 and may he nurse the rage of dragons, and may the tongue of a serpent do away with him;
JOB 20:17 may he not behold the milking of grazing animals, nor the pastures of honey and butter,
JOB 20:18 for he tired for attaining riches in emptiness and vanity of which he shall not taste - it is as if tough, unchewable, and impotable;
JOB 20:19 for he crushed the houses of many of the disabled, and a habitation he seized by force - and he established it not;
JOB 20:20 his safety is not in the possessions; by his desire he will not escape;
JOB 20:21 there is not a leftover to the foods of his; on account of this the good things of his shall not bloom;
JOB 20:22 and whenever it should seem urgent to accomplish something, he shall be afflicted; and all distress shall come upon him;
JOB 20:23 if by any means he might fill his belly, let God send as a successor upon him the rage of anger - may griefs wash over him;
JOB 20:24 and in no way shall he be delivered from the hand of iron; may the bow of brass pierce him;
JOB 20:25 and may the arrow go completely through his body; and may the stars walk on his habitation; may fears be upon him;
JOB 20:26 and may all darkness wait for him; inextinguishable fire shall devour him; and may a stranger inflict evil on his house;
JOB 20:27 and may the heaven uncover his lawless deeds, and the earth rise up against him;
JOB 20:28 may destruction draw his house unto the end; may the day of anger come upon him.
JOB 20:29 This is the portion of an impious man from the LORD, and the possession of his substance given to him by the overseer.
JOB 21:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 21:2 Hear, hear my words, that there should be to me this comfort from you!
JOB 21:3 Lift me, and I will speak! then you shall not ridicule me.
JOB 21:4 For what, is my rebuke from man? or why shall I not be enraged?
JOB 21:5 O ones looking at me, wonder, while putting the hand upon the jaw.
JOB 21:6 For even if I should remember, I hurry, and griefs hold the things of my flesh.
JOB 21:7 Why do the impious ones live, and they grow old, and in riches?
JOB 21:8 Their sowing is according to their soul's desire, and their children in eyes.
JOB 21:9 Their houses prosper, and fear is not to them at all, and the whip of the LORD is not upon them.
JOB 21:10 Their ox does not bring forth prematurely, and their pregnant ones are preserved to have, and not to trip.
JOB 21:11 And they remain as everlasting sheep, and their children play before them,
JOB 21:12 taking up the psaltery and harp, and are gladdened at the sound of a psalm.
JOB 21:13 And they complete their existence with good things, and in the rest of Hades they go to sleep.
JOB 21:14 And he says to the LORD, Separate from me! I do not want to know your ways.
JOB 21:15 What is fit that we shall serve to him? and what benefit, that we shall meet with him?
JOB 21:16 For the good things were not to him in hands; but works of impious ones he inspects not.
JOB 21:17 But nevertheless, even the lamp of impious ones shall be extinguished, and there shall come upon them the final event, but their pangs they shall have from anger.
JOB 21:18 And they will be as straw before the wind, or as a cloud of dust which the tempest took up.
JOB 21:19 May his possessions fail his sons; and God shall recompense to him, and he shall know it.
JOB 21:20 May his eyes behold his own slaughter, and by the LORD may he not be delivered.
JOB 21:21 For his will is in his house with him, and the numbers of his months were divided.
JOB 21:22 Is it not the LORD who is the one teaching understanding and higher knowledge? And is it not he who litigates wise ones.
JOB 21:23 This one shall die in the might of his singleness of purpose, but entirely enjoying pleasure and prospering;
JOB 21:24 and his insides are full of fat, and his marrow is diffused in him;
JOB 21:25 and the coming to an end in bitterness of soul, not eating anything good.
JOB 21:26 But in one accord upon the earth they sleep, and rottenness covers them.
JOB 21:27 So as I know you, that you daringly press upon me;
JOB 21:28 that you shall say, Where is the house of the ruler? and where is the protection of the tents of the impious?
JOB 21:29 Ask the ones passing by the way, and you shall not separate from their signs.
JOB 21:30 For unto the day of destruction the wicked one lightens; for the day of his anger he shall be taken away.
JOB 21:31 Who will report unto his face his way? and what he did, who shall recompense to him?
JOB 21:32 And he was carried away unto the tombs, and stayed awakemourning at the graves upon the heaps graves..
JOB 21:33 The gravel of the rushing stream was sweet to him; and after him every man shall go forth, and in front of him there are innumerable ones.
JOB 21:34 And how do you comfort me in vain? But for me to rest from you is nothing.
JOB 22:1 And undertaking, Eliphaz the Temanite says,
JOB 22:2 Is it not the LORD that is the one teaching understanding and higher knowledge?
JOB 22:3 For what does it concern the LORD if you were blameless in works, or what benefit that you simplify your way?
JOB 22:4 Or making your word, will he reprovetry to convince you. you? and will he enter together with you for judgment?
JOB 22:5 Is it not that your evil is much, and your sins are innumerable?
JOB 22:6 And you took security of your brothers without cause, and you removed clothing of the naked.
JOB 22:7 Nor did you give water to drink for the thirsting, and you deprived a morsel of ones hungering.
JOB 22:8 And you admired the faces of some discriminated.; you resettled the poor upon the earth;
JOB 22:9 and you sent out widows empty, and you inflicted evil on orphans.
JOB 22:10 Accordingly snares encircled you, and an extraordinary war hurried you.
JOB 22:11 The light resulted in darkness for you, and in going to sleep water covered you.
JOB 22:12 Is it not that the one inhabiting the high places inspects? and he humbled the ones bearing insolence?
JOB 22:13 And you said, What does the mighty one know? or does he judge in the dark?
JOB 22:14 A cloud is his concealment, and he shall not be seen; and the curve of heaven he travels over.
JOB 22:15 Will you not guard the eternal road which unjust men trod?
JOB 22:16 The ones who were seized untimely are as a river overflowing their foundations.
JOB 22:17 The ones saying, The LORD, what will he do to us? or, what will the almighty bring upon us?
JOB 22:18 And he is the one who filled up their houses of good things; but the counsel of impious ones is at a distance from him.
JOB 22:19 In beholding, just ones laugh, and the blameless one sneers at them.
JOB 22:20 Except their support vanished, and fire shall devour their vestige.
JOB 22:21 Become firm indeed, if you should remain, so that your fruit will be for good things!
JOB 22:22 And take an utterance from out of his mouth, and take up his sayings in your heart!
JOB 22:23 And if you should turn and humble yourself before the LORD, then you made wrongdoing to be a distance from your habitation.
JOB 22:24 You shall put upon an embankment in rock, even as a rock of a rushing stream of Ophir.
JOB 22:25 Then the almighty will be your helper from the enemies, and he will render you clean as purified silver.
JOB 22:26 So then, you shall speak openly before the LORD, looking up into the heaven happily.
JOB 22:27 And of your vowing to him, he will listen to you; and he will give to you power to render the vows.
JOB 22:28 And he will restore to you a habitation of righteousness, and upon your ways will be brightness.
JOB 22:29 For he humbled himself. And you shall say, He is prideful - but the one having downcast the eyes he shall deliver.
JOB 22:30 He shall rescue the innocent; but be delivered in your cleanness of hands!
JOB 23:1 And undertaking Job says,
JOB 23:2 For indeed I know that my rebuke is out of my hand; and his hand has become heavy over my moaning.
JOB 23:3 But who is it that may know that I might find him, and that I might come to the end of the matter?
JOB 23:4 And I might speak judgment for myself, and with my mouth I shall fill up reproofs.
JOB 23:5 And then I may know the cure which he shall speak to me, and then I may perceive what he shall report to me.
JOB 23:6 And if in much strength he shall come upon me, so then he shall not treat me with intimidation.
JOB 23:7 For truth and reproof are from him; and may he bring equity unto my end.
JOB 23:8 For at first I shall go, and no longer am I; and the things of the latter end, what do I know?
JOB 23:9 In his acting with the left hand, I hold not back; he covers by the right hand, and I shall not see.
JOB 23:10 For he knows my way already; he examined me as gold.
JOB 23:11 And I shall go forth in his precepts, for his ways I kept, and in no way shall I turn aside from his precepts;
JOB 23:12 and in no way shall I pass by them; and in my bosom I hid his sayings.
JOB 23:13 But if even he judged thus, who is the one contradicting him, for he wanted and acted.
JOB 23:14 On account of this, I have hastened unto him; and being admonished, I thought of him.
JOB 23:15 Over this I should take his face seriously; I shall contemplate, and shall be terrified of him.
JOB 23:16 But the LORD softened my heart, and the almighty hastened me.
JOB 23:17 For I knew not that darkness shall come upon me, and dimness covered before my face.
JOB 24:1 And why did the seasons not escape notice by the LORD?
JOB 24:2 And impious ones passed over the border, seizing a flock with shepherd.
JOB 24:3 And a beast of burden of orphans they took away, and oxen of widows for security.
JOB 24:4 They turned aside the disabled from the just way; with one accord the gentle of the earth was hidden.
JOB 24:5 And they resulted as if donkeys in a field going forth for me on their own action; their bread for the young is delicious.
JOB 24:6 They harvested a field not being their own before its season; and the disabled worked the vineyards of impious ones without pay and without eating.
JOB 24:7 They rested many naked without clothes, and they removed clothing necessary for their life.
JOB 24:8 From the mists of the mountains they are wetted; from their not having protection they covered themselves with rock.
JOB 24:9 They seized the orphan from the breast, and they humbled the one falling off.
JOB 24:10 And of naked ones, they rested wrongfully, and of ones hungering, they removed the morsel.
JOB 24:11 In narrows they wrongly lie in wait, and the way of a just one they knew not.
JOB 24:12 The ones from out of the city and the ones of their own houses they cast out; and the soul of infants moaned greatly.
JOB 24:13 But why did he in overseeing these not act in their being upon the earth? and they did not recognize, and the way of righteousness they knew not, nor were gone by their short-cuts.
JOB 24:14 But knowing their works he delivered them unto darkness, and night will be as a thief.
JOB 24:15 And the eye of the adulterer watched for darkness, saying, The eye will not think of me beforehand. And he put a concealment for his face.
JOB 24:16 In darkness he dug through houses; by day they seal up themselves - they know not the light.
JOB 24:17 For with one accord to them in the morning is the shadow of death; for each shall realize the disturbances of the shadow of death.
JOB 24:18 He is light upon the face of the water; may their portion be cursed upon the earth; and may their plants appear
JOB 24:19 dry upon the earth; for the arm of orphans they seized by force.
JOB 24:20 So then his sin is called to mind, and as fog of dew he becomes unapparent; and may it be recompensed to him what he acted, and may every unjust one be destroyed equally as incurable rotten wood.
JOB 24:21 For the sterile woman he did not do well, and on the helpless woman he did not show mercy.
JOB 24:22 And in rage he overturned the disabled; accordingly in rising up in no way should he trust according to his own life.
JOB 24:23 In being infirm, let him not hope to be healed! But he shall fall in disease.
JOB 24:24 For his arrogance afflicted many. But he withered as a mallow plant in sweltering heat, and as an ear of wheat falling off from the stubble by itself.
JOB 24:25 But if not, who is the one saying for me to speak falsely, and renders my words as nothing?
JOB 25:1 And undertaking, Baldad the Shuhite says,
JOB 25:2 For what retort or fear is his - the one making all things in the highest?
JOB 25:3 For let not any undertake the thought that there is deferment for marauders. And upon whom will there not come an ambush from him?
JOB 25:4 For how shall a mortal be just before the LORD? or who may cleanse himself born of a woman?
JOB 25:5 should he should order the moon and it does not shine, and the stars are not pure before him -
JOB 25:6 but alas, man is rottenness, and the son of man a worm.
JOB 26:1 And undertaking, Job says,
JOB 26:2 To whom do you lie near to, or to whom are you about to help? Is it not the one who has much strength, and whose arm is fortified?
JOB 26:3 By whom have you been advised? is it not by whom has all wisdom. Or to whom will you follow after? is it not the one who has greatest power.
JOB 26:4 To whom did you announce words, and whose breath it is that comes forth from you?
JOB 26:5 Shall giants act as midwife from beneath the water, and the ones of his neighbors?
JOB 26:6 Hades is naked before him, and there is not a wrap-around garment to destruction.
JOB 26:7 He stretches out the north wind upon nothing, and hangs the earth upon nothing;
JOB 26:8 binding water in his clouds, and the cloud is not torn underneath it;
JOB 26:9 holding back the front of his throne, spreading forth his cloud over it.
JOB 26:10 By order he made the curvature upon the face of the water till the completion of light with darkness.
JOB 26:11 The columns of heaven are spread out, and are startled at his reproach.
JOB 26:12 By strength he rested the sea, and by higher knowledge he spread forth the sea-monster.
JOB 26:13 And the bolts of heaven are in awe of him; and of his order he put to death the dragon defector.
JOB 26:14 Behold, these are the parts of his way; and at the exhalation of his word we hearken to him, and who knows when he will execute the strength of his thunder?
JOB 27:1 And still Job proceeding said in the retort,
JOB 27:2 God lives, who thus has judged me; even the almighty embittering my soul.
JOB 27:3 Is it not yet of my breath to be in me, and the divine breath remains to me in my nostrils?
JOB 27:4 My lips shall not speak lawless things, nor shall my soul meditate upon wrongdoing.
JOB 27:5 May it not be to me to sentence you as just ones, until whenever I die. For I will not dismiss my innocence from me.
JOB 27:6 And taking heed to my righteousness, in no way will I let it go; for I am not myself fully conscious of acting out of place.
JOB 27:7 But not in any way - but may my enemies be as the undoing of the impious ones; and the ones rising up against me as the destruction of the lawbreakers.
JOB 27:8 And for what is the hope of an impious one that he waits? is it yielding upon the LORD that he shall be delivered?
JOB 27:9 Or will God listen to his supplication? or when necessity comes upon him,
JOB 27:10 shall he hold any confidence before him? or as one calling upon him, shall he listen to him?
JOB 27:11 But indeed, I will announce to you what is in the hand of the LORD; which things are by the almighty I shall not lie.
JOB 27:12 Behold, you all know that you put vanity upon vanity.
JOB 27:13 This is the portion of an impious man from the LORD, and the possession of mighty ones shall come from the almighty upon them.
JOB 27:14 And if his sons become many, they will be for slaughter; and if even they should arrive at manhood, they shall beg.
JOB 27:15 And the ones remaining of his shall come to an end in plague, and no one shall show mercy on their widows.
JOB 27:16 If he should have gathered together silver as earth, and equally shall prepare gold as mortar,
JOB 27:17 all these things just ones shall procure, and of his things the true ones will control;
JOB 27:18 and his house turned out to be as for a moth, and as for a spider's web.
JOB 27:19 The rich man shall sleep, and shall not proceed; his eyes are opened wide, and he is not.
JOB 27:20 Griefs meet up with him as if water, and by night the dark takes him.
JOB 27:21 A burning wind takes him, and he shall go forth; and it shall winnow him from out of his place.
JOB 27:22 And he shall cast upon him, and shall not spare; he shall flee into exile from out of his hand.
JOB 27:23 He shall cause man to clap his hands against him, and he shall whistle at him from out of his place.
JOB 28:1 For there is a place for silver from where it exists, and a place for gold from where it is refined.
JOB 28:2 For iron comes from out of the earth, and brass equally is quarried like stone.
JOB 28:3 He established an order for darkness, and every limit he determines exactly; darkness and the shadow of death is as a stone.
JOB 28:4 There is a breach of the rushing stream from powder; and the ones forgetting the just way are weakened; of mortals - they are shaken.
JOB 28:5 As for the earth, out of it shall come forth bread; underneath it, it was turned as fire.
JOB 28:6 Her stones are the place of the sapphire, and her gold an embankment.
JOB 28:7 There is a road the bird knows it not, and the eye of the vulture looked not over it,
JOB 28:8 the sons of ostentatious ones trod it not; a lion went not upon it.
JOB 28:9 He stretched forth his hand in a chiseled place, and overturned mountains by the roots;
JOB 28:10 and the hill embankment. of rivers he tore up, and my eye beheld every valuable thing.
JOB 28:11 And the depths of the rivers he uncovered, and he shows his power in light.
JOB 28:12 But from what place is wisdom found? and of what place is higher knowledge?
JOB 28:13 A mortal knows not her way; in no way is she found among men.
JOB 28:14 The abyss said, She is not in me; and the sea said, She is not with me.
JOB 28:15 One shall not give an investment for her, and shall not set silver as a bargain for her.
JOB 28:16 And she shall not be compared with the gold of Ophir, with valuable onyx and sapphire.
JOB 28:17 Gold and glass shall not be equal to her, nor items of gold as barter for her.
JOB 28:18 Meteorites and crystal shall not be mentioned; but draw on wisdom above the innermost things.
JOB 28:19 The topaz of Ethiopia shall not be equal to her; she shall not be compared to pure gold.
JOB 28:20 But concerning wisdom, from what place shall she be found? and of what kind of place is understanding?
JOB 28:21 She has escaped notice of every man, and from the birds of the heaven she was hid.
JOB 28:22 Destruction and death said, We have heard of her fame.
JOB 28:23 God commended her way well, and he knows her place.
JOB 28:24 For he inspects all things under heaven, knowing the things in the earth -
JOB 28:25 all which he made, even the weight of the winds, and the measures of water.
JOB 28:26 When he made them, thus seeing he counted them, and made a way for the vibration of sound.
JOB 28:27 Then he beheld it - he described it; preparing he tracked it out.
JOB 28:28 And he said to man, Behold, godliness is wisdom; and being at a distance from evils is higher knowledge.
JOB 29:1 But still Job proceeding spoke in the retort, saying,
JOB 29:2 O that he might have put me according to the month before the days which God guarded me;
JOB 29:3 as when his lamp shone over my head; when I went through darkness by his light;
JOB 29:4 when I was in the days of my youth; when God overseeing dealt with my house;
JOB 29:5 when I was exceedingly flush, and round about me were my children;
JOB 29:6 when my ways poured forth butter, and my mountains poured forth milk;
JOB 29:7 when I went forth early into the city, and they placed my chair in the squares;
JOB 29:8 beholding me, the young men hid, and all the old men stood,
JOB 29:9 and the stout men ceased speaking, placing their finger to their mouth;
JOB 29:10 and the ones hearing declared me blessed, and their tongue cleaved to their throat.
JOB 29:11 For the ear heard, and blessed me; and the eye beholding me, turned aside.
JOB 29:12 For I delivered the poor from out of the hand of the mighty one, and the orphan in whom there was not a helper I helped.
JOB 29:13 May the blessing of one perishing come upon me; for the mouth of the widow blessed me.
JOB 29:14 And righteousness I had put on, and I clothed on judgment equal to a double garment.
JOB 29:15 I was the eye of the blind, and the foot of the lame.
JOB 29:16 I was the father of the disabled, and I tracked out the cause which I knew not.
JOB 29:17 And I broke the molars of unjust ones, and from out of the midst of their teeth I pulled out the prey.
JOB 29:18 And I said, My stature shall grow old as the trunk of a palm; I shall spend life with much time.
JOB 29:19 The root was widened upon the water, and the dew lodged among my harvest.
JOB 29:20 My glory was new with me, and my bow went forth in his hand.
JOB 29:21 Men hearing of me took heed, and kept silent over my counsel.
JOB 29:22 At my word they proceeded not; but they became overjoyed when I spoke to them.
JOB 29:23 As the earth thirsting, favorably receiving the rain, so were these at my speech.
JOB 29:24 If I should have laughed on them, in no way should they have trusted the thing; and the light of my face was not fallen away.
JOB 29:25 I chose their way, and I sat as ruler, and encamped as king among armed ones, in which manner comforting mourners.
JOB 30:1 And now the least of them ridicule me; now they admonish me in turn - whom I treated their fathers with contempt, whom I did not esteem to be worthy of dogs of my grazing flocks.
JOB 30:2 And indeed, what profit is the strength of their hands to me? it was destroyed of them to completion.
JOB 30:3 In lack and hunger one is barren, as the ones fleeing waterless yesterday in conflict and misery;
JOB 30:4 the ones breaking off the marine plant upon the sounding shore, whose marine plants were for their grain, and were without honor, and being treated as worthless, lacking of every good thing, and gnawed the roots of trees because of great hunger.
JOB 30:5 Thieves rose up against me,
JOB 30:6 whom their houses were burrows of rocks.
JOB 30:7 the ones who pass life under wild stick dwellings shall yell in the midst of distinct places.
JOB 30:8 They are sons of foolish ones, and have a name without honor; and fame extinguished from the earth.
JOB 30:9 And now I am their harp, and they have me for a common topic.
JOB 30:10 And they abhorred me, separating far from me, and from my face they spared not spittle.
JOB 30:11 For having opened his quiver, he afflicted me; and sent away the bridle the restraint of my presence..
JOB 30:12 They rose up against me on the right hand of their offspring. He stretched out his feet and opened against me with paths of their destruction.
JOB 30:13 They obliterated my paths. For he took off my apparel, and his spear ran me through.
JOB 30:14 And he has judged me as he wills; in griefs I am befouled;
JOB 30:15 my griefs return; my hope was set out as if the wind, and my deliverance as if a cloud.
JOB 30:16 And now my soul shall be poured out upon me, and days of griefs suffice me.
JOB 30:17 And at night my bones burn, and my nerves are parted.
JOB 30:18 With great strength it took hold of my robe; as the cleft of my garment it compassed me.
JOB 30:19 And you have esteemed me equal to clay; in earth and ashes is my portion.
JOB 30:20 And I have cried out to you, and you hear me not; they stood and contemplated me.
JOB 30:21 And you mounted against me mercilessly; you whipped me with a strong hand.
JOB 30:22 And you arranged against me with griefs, and threw me away from deliverance.
JOB 30:23 For I know that death will obliterate me; for the house of every mortal is ground.
JOB 30:24 For if ought I should be able to lay hands upon myself, or indeed beseech another and he should do this to me.
JOB 30:25 And I wept over every disabled man, and moaned beholding man in necessities.
JOB 30:26 I waited for good things, and behold bad days met with me instead.
JOB 30:27 My belly erupted, and shall not keep silent; days of poorness anticipated me.
JOB 30:28 I went moaning without a rein, and I have stood in the assembly crying out.
JOB 30:29 I have become a brother of sirens, and companion of ostriches.
JOB 30:30 My skin is enveloped in darkness greatly, and the bones of mine from sweltering heat.
JOB 30:31 And my harp turned into mourning, and my psalm into weeping for me.
JOB 31:1 I made a covenant with my eyes, and I will not take notice upon a virgin.
JOB 31:2 And what portion is from God above, and what fit inheritance is from the highest?
JOB 31:3 Woe, destruction to the unjust, and alienation to the one committing lawlessness.
JOB 31:4 Will he not see my way, and count out all my footsteps?
JOB 31:5 But if I was going with jokesters, and even if hurrying my foot for treachery;
JOB 31:6 (for I stand in a just yoke balance scale, and the LORD knew my innocence),
JOB 31:7 if my foot turned aside from out of the way, or if even my heart follows after my eye, and if even my hands touched bribes;
JOB 31:8 then may I sow, and others eat, and may I become rootless upon the earth.
JOB 31:9 If my heart followed after the wife of another man, and if I had laid in wait at her doors;
JOB 31:10 then may my wife even please another; and may my infants be humbled.
JOB 31:11 For the rage of anger is unrestrained in the defiling of a man's wife.
JOB 31:12 For it is a fire burning upon all the parts; and whomever it may come upon it destroyed from the roots.
JOB 31:13 And if even I treated as worthless the equity due my male attendant or female attendant, in their pleading with me,
JOB 31:14 what then shall I do if the LORD shall appoint chastisement for me? And if also he should visit, what answer shall I make?
JOB 31:15 Were they not as also I, born in a womb? And these were born, and we were born in the same belly.
JOB 31:16 But the disabled missed not what need they had at some time or other; and I wasted not away the eye of the widow.
JOB 31:17 And even if I ate my morsel alone, and I shared of it not with an orphan,
JOB 31:18 (for from my youth I nourished them as a father, and from the womb of my mother I guided),
JOB 31:19 and even if I overlooked the naked perishing, and clothed him not;
JOB 31:20 and the disabled, unless they blessed me, and of the shearing wool of my lambs their shoulders were not heated;
JOB 31:21 and if I lifted up a hand against an orphan, (relying that much help remained to me),
JOB 31:22 may then my shoulder separate from the collar-bone, and may my arm be broken from the elbow.
JOB 31:23 For the fear of the LORD constrained me; from his concern I shall not endure.
JOB 31:24 If I ordered up gold for my strength; and if even I relied upon very costly stone;
JOB 31:25 and even if great gladness in riches was coming to me; and if also I put my hand upon innumerable things,
JOB 31:26 (or do we not see the shining sun subsiding, and the moon waning? for there is not power to them),
JOB 31:27 and if my heart was deceived in private; and if I was fond of placing my hand upon my mouth;
JOB 31:28 then let this be imputed so to me as the greatest lawlessness; for I lied before the LORD of the highest.
JOB 31:29 And even if I became gratified at the calamitous downfall of my enemies; and said in my heart, Well done!
JOB 31:30 Let then my ear hear my curse, and may I then be a common topic by my people for my inflicting evil.
JOB 31:31 And if even often my female attendants said, Who ever might give to us his flesh to satisfy? That exceedingly of my being gracious,
JOB 31:32 for the stranger lodged not outside, and my door was open to all coming;
JOB 31:33 and if even of sins, unintentionally I hid my sin,
JOB 31:34 (for not was I diverted by a great multitude to not openly declare before them;) and if even I allowed a disabled one to go forth from my door with an empty bosom,
JOB 31:35 (oh that there might be given one to hear me), but unless I was in awe of the hand of the LORD; and as to a writ which I had against anyone,
JOB 31:36 putting it on a crown upon even my shoulders I read it;
JOB 31:37 and unless tearing it I gave it back having received nothing from a debtor -
JOB 31:38 if perhaps the earth moaned against me, and even if her furrows wept with one accord;
JOB 31:39 and even if of its strength I ate alone without value; and if even in taking anything of the life of the master of the land I fretted him;
JOB 31:40 instead of wheat then may there come forth to me nettles; and instead of barley a bush. And Job ceased words.
JOB 32:1 And they were quiet, and his three friends no longer contradicted Job, for Job was as a just one before them.
JOB 32:2 And Elihu was provoked to anger, the son of Barachel the Buzite, from out of the kin of Ram, of the place of Ausis. And he was provoked to anger against Job exceedingly, for he sentenced himself as a just one before the LORD.
JOB 32:3 But even against the three friends he was provoked to anger exceedingly, for they were not able to answer contrary to Job, and that they established him to be an impious one.
JOB 32:4 And Elihu waited to give an answer to Job, for they were older than he in days.
JOB 32:5 And Elihu saw that there is not an answer in the mouths of the three men, and his anger was enraged.
JOB 32:6 And undertaking, Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, said, Forasmuch as I am younger in time, and you are older; therefore I was still, fearing to announce to you the higher knowledge of myself.
JOB 32:7 And I said, It is not time for speaking; but in many years men have not known wisdom.
JOB 32:8 But there is a spirit in mortals, and the breath of the almighty is the one teaching.
JOB 32:9 The long-lived are not wise ones as such; and neither do the aged know equity.
JOB 32:10 Therefore I said, Hear me, and I will announce to you what I know!
JOB 32:11 Give ear to my sayings! for I will speak of your hearing, as far as of which time you should examine the words;
JOB 32:12 and until you shall perceive. And behold, there was not one reproving Job, in answering his words from you,
JOB 32:13 that you should not say, We found wisdom being added by the LORD.
JOB 32:14 And you commissioned man to speak such words.
JOB 32:15 And they were terrified, they answered not any longer; words were old coming from them.
JOB 32:16 I waited, for I spoke not. For they stood, they answered not.
JOB 32:17 And undertaking, Elihu says, Again I shall speak,
JOB 32:18 for I am full of words, for the wind of the belly destroys me;
JOB 32:19 and my belly is as if a leather bag of sweet new wine bubbling, being tied up; and as if the bellows of a brazier tearing forth.
JOB 32:20 I will speak that I shall rest myself in opening my lips.
JOB 32:21 For in no way shall I be shamed by man, and in fact, nor in no way shall I shame a mortal.
JOB 32:22 For I know not to admire a person; but if not, even moths shall devour me.
JOB 33:1 But nevertheless, hear, O Job, my words, and give ear to my speech!
JOB 33:2 For behold, I opened my mouth, and my tongue spoke.
JOB 33:3 My heart is pure in words, and the understanding of my lips shall purpose pure.
JOB 33:4 The divine spirit made me, and the breath of the almighty is what is teaching me.
JOB 33:5 If you should be able, give to me an answer for these things! Wait, stand against me, and I against you!
JOB 33:6 From out of clay you were molded as also I; we were molded from out of the same clay.
JOB 33:7 Not by the fear of me will he astonish you, nor shall my hand be heavy upon you.
JOB 33:8 Except you said in my ears, I have heard the voice of your words, for you say,
JOB 33:9 I am pure, not having sinned; for I am blameless, for I did not act lawlessly.
JOB 33:10 But he found a complaint against me, and he has esteemed me as if an opponent.
JOB 33:11 And he put my foot in stocks of wood, and guarded all my ways.
JOB 33:12 For how say you, I am just, and he has not heeded me? For the one above mortals is eternal.
JOB 33:13 But you say, Why of my righteousness has he not heeded every word?
JOB 33:14 For when the LORD speaks once, or a second time,
JOB 33:15 in a dream or in a nightly meditation, or as whenever an awful fear falls upon men, in slumberings upon a bed,
JOB 33:16 then he uncovers the mind of men in sights of fear. With such he frightens them,
JOB 33:17 to turn a man from iniquity, and he rescues his body from a calamitous downfall,
JOB 33:18 and spares his soul from death, and spares him so as to not fall in war;
JOB 33:19 and again he reproves him by infirmity upon a bed, and paralyzed a multitude of his bones,
JOB 33:20 and in no way shall he be able to favorably receive any eatable grain, even though his soul desires food;
JOB 33:21 until whenever his flesh should fester, and his bones should be exposed bare;
JOB 33:22 and his soul approached unto death, and his life unto Hades.
JOB 33:23 If there might be a thousand messengers causing death, one of them in no way shall pierce him, if he should purpose in his heart to turn towards the LORD, and announce to man his own complaint, and should show his lawlessness.
JOB 33:24 He shall hold him to not fall into death, and he shall renew his body as new plaster upon a wall, and will fill up his bones with marrow.
JOB 33:25 He will make his flesh tender as an infant, and shall restore him to manhood among men.
JOB 33:26 And one vowing to the LORD, and it will be accepted for him; then he shall enter with a clean face, with an utterance of praise. And he will recompense righteousness to men.
JOB 33:27 Even then a man himself shall blame himself, saying, What things have I completed? And he chastised me not worth what I sinned.
JOB 33:28 Deliver my soul to not come unto corruption, that my life shall see light!
JOB 33:29 Behold, all these things the strong one works three ways with a man.
JOB 33:30 And he rescued my soul from death, that my life in light should praise him.
JOB 33:31 Give ear, O Job, and hear me! Be silent, for I am, I shall speak.
JOB 33:32 If there are words in you, answer me! Speak, for I want justice to be done for you!
JOB 33:33 If not, you hear me! Be silent, and I will teach you wisdom!
JOB 34:1 And undertaking, Elihu says,
JOB 34:2 Hear me, O wise ones! O ones having knowledge, give ear to the good!
JOB 34:3 For the ear tries words, and the throat tastes food.
JOB 34:4 Judgment we should take up for ourselves; we should know between ourselves what is good.
JOB 34:5 For Job has said, I am just, the LORD has dismissed my judgment.
JOB 34:6 And he lied in my judgment; my spear is violent without injustice.
JOB 34:7 What man is as Job, drinking sneering as if water,
JOB 34:8 not sinning, nor being impious, nor wholly participating with ones committing the lawless things, to go with impious ones.
JOB 34:9 For you should not say that there will not be a man overseeing and there is an overseeing to him by the LORD.
JOB 34:10 Therefore, O discerning of heart, hear me! May it not be to me before the LORD to be impious, and before the almighty to disturb the just.
JOB 34:11 But he gives back to man as each of them does, and by a path man will find him.
JOB 34:12 And do you imagine the LORD doing something out of place, or that the almighty will disturb a judgment - the one who made the earth?
JOB 34:13 And who is the one acting under heaven, and all the things being in it?
JOB 34:14 For if he might want to constrain, and to hold down the spirit by himself,
JOB 34:15 all flesh would come to an end with one accord. Every mortal shall go forth into the earth from where even he was shaped.
JOB 34:16 But if he should not admonish, then hear these things! Give ear to the sound of words!
JOB 34:17 You behold the one detesting lawless deeds, and the one destroying the wicked, being eternally just!
JOB 34:18 An impious one is the one saying to a king, You act unlawfully, O most impious one, to the rulers.
JOB 34:19 The one who was not feeling respect for the person of honor, nor knows to appoint honor to the stout men, to admire their persons.
JOB 34:20 But it shall result in vanity to them, to cry out and to beseech a man; for they dealt unlawfully, turning aside the disabled.
JOB 34:21 For he is an observer of the works of men, and nothing of how they act has escaped him;
JOB 34:22 nor is there a place to hide the ones doing lawless deeds.
JOB 34:23 For he will not put upon a man any longer.
JOB 34:24 For the LORD inspects all - the one perceiving untraceable things, honorable things also, and extraordinary things which there is not a number.
JOB 34:25 The one knowing their works, and he shall turn night upon them, and they shall be humbled.
JOB 34:26 And he extinguishes impious ones, for they are visible before him.
JOB 34:27 For they turned aside from the law of God - they did not recognize his ordinances.
JOB 34:28 Of the bringing unto him the cry of the needy, then he will listen to the cry of the poor.
JOB 34:29 And he will furnish rest, and who will condemn? And he will hide his face, and who shall see him? Even against a nation and against a man together;
JOB 34:30 giving reign to a man who is a hypocrite, because of the discontent of people,
JOB 34:31 that to the mighty one saying, I have received blessings. I will not take anything for security.
JOB 34:32 I will see apart from myself. You show to me if I practiced iniquity! In no way shall I proceed.
JOB 34:33 Will he pay it on you, in that you should have thrust it away; for you shall choose, and not I, and what you know - speak!
JOB 34:34 Therefore the discerning in heart shall say these things, and a wise man hears my word.
JOB 34:35 But Job spoke not with understanding, and his words are not with higher knowledge.
JOB 34:36 But nevertheless, learn Job! No longer give an answer as the foolish ones,
JOB 34:37 that we should not add upon our sins; for lawlessness may be imputed against us in speaking many words before the LORD.
JOB 35:1 And undertaking, Elihu says,
JOB 35:2 What is this you esteemed in equity? You, who are you, that you said, I am just before the LORD?
JOB 35:3 For you shall say, How should I have committed sinning?
JOB 35:4 I shall give to you an answer, and to your three friends.
JOB 35:5 Look up into the heaven, and behold! Study the clouds, how high they are from you!
JOB 35:6 If you sinned, what will you do? And even if in many things you acted lawlessly, what are you able to do?
JOB 35:7 Since then you are just, what shall you give to him, or what shall he take from out of your hand?
JOB 35:8 To a man likened to you - of your impiety; and to a son of man - of your righteousness.
JOB 35:9 The ones being extorted by a multitude shall cry out - they shall yell because of the arm of many.
JOB 35:10 And one said not, Where is the God who made me, the one delegating the nightly watches;
JOB 35:11 the one separating me from the four-footed beasts of the earth, and from the birds of heaven.
JOB 35:12 There they shall cry out, and in no way shall one listen, even because of the insolence of wicked men.
JOB 35:13 For things out of place the LORD does not want to behold, for he is the almighty.
JOB 35:14 He is an observer of the ones completing lawless deeds, and he will deliver me. And you plead before him, if you are able to praise him, as he is!
JOB 35:15 And now that he is not numbering his anger, and he knows not exceeding transgressions,
JOB 35:16 even Job acting in folly opens his own mouth; in ignorance he weighs down words.
JOB 36:1 And proceeding still, Elihu says,
JOB 36:2 Wait for me a little more, that I shall teach you! For there is still speech in me.
JOB 36:3 Having taken up my higher knowledge from afar, and to works of mine,
JOB 36:4 I will speak just things in truth, and you shall not unjustly perceive unjust words.
JOB 36:5 But know that the LORD in no way shall undo the guileless man - God the mighty in strength of heart!
JOB 36:6 Impious ones in no way should he restore to life, and he shall impute equity of the poor.
JOB 36:7 He will not remove his eyes from a just one; and with kings on a throne he shall seat them into victory, and they shall be exalted.
JOB 36:8 And the ones being shackled in manacles shall be held together by rough cords of poverty,
JOB 36:9 and he shall announce to them their works, and their transgressions, for they are prevalent.
JOB 36:10 But he will listen to the just one; and he spoke that they shall turn from unrighteousness.
JOB 36:11 If they shall hear and serve, they shall complete their days among good things, and their years among beautiful things.
JOB 36:12 But impious ones are not preserved by their not willing to behold the LORD, and that even being admonished they were unhearing.
JOB 36:13 And hypocrites in heart shall order rage; they shall not yell for help, for he bound them.
JOB 36:14 Therefore may their soul die in youth, and their life being pierced by messengers of evils,
JOB 36:15 because they afflicted the weak and disabled. And he will expound judgment for the gentle.
JOB 36:16 And from when he beguiled from out of the mouth of the enemy, an abyss for throwing down underneath it, that your table went down full of fatness.
JOB 36:17 But judgment shall not fail from a just one;
JOB 36:18 and rage will be upon impious ones, because of the impiety of bribes which they received for iniquities.
JOB 36:19 Let not the mind willingly turn you aside of the supplication of the ones being disabled in necessity, not even all the ones fortifying for strength!
JOB 36:20 You shall not drag away the night, so that others should ascend instead of them.
JOB 36:21 But guard lest you act out of place! for of these things you took up because of poorness.
JOB 36:22 Behold, the strong one shall conquer by his strength; for who is as he - the mighty one.
JOB 36:23 And who is the one examining his works? Or who is the one having said, He acted unjustly.
JOB 36:24 Remember that his works are great, which men command!
JOB 36:25 Every man beholds in himself how many mortals are being pierced.
JOB 36:26 Behold, the strong one is great, and we shall not know him; and the number of his years are unlimited.
JOB 36:27 And the drops of rain shall be counted by him, and shall be poured for rain in the cloud.
JOB 36:28 Things grown old shall flow, and clouds shadow over untold mortals.
JOB 36:29 And should one have perceived the spreading out of the clouds as equal of his tent?
JOB 36:30 Behold, he stretches out light upon it, and covers the root of the sea.
JOB 36:31 For in them he shall judge peoples; he shall give nourishment to the one being strong.
JOB 36:32 With the hands he covers light, and gave charge concerning it with the encountering clouds.
JOB 36:33 He will announce his friend concerning him - for possession and for injustice.
JOB 37:1 And from this my heart is disturbed, and was dropped down from out of its place.
JOB 37:2 Hear a report in anger of rage of the LORD! And a meditation from out of his mouth shall come forth.
JOB 37:3 Underneath all the heaven is his sovereignty, and his light is upon the wings of the earth.
JOB 37:4 After him a voice shall yell out; he shall thunder with the sound of his insult, and shall not bargain them, that one shall hear his voice.
JOB 37:5 The strong one will thunder wonders with his voice; he established a season for animals, and they know the order of the fold. Upon all these things your thought is not receded, nor is your heart reconciled from your body. For he did great things which we knew not -
JOB 37:6 ordering the snow, saying, Be upon the earth; and the winter rain of his command.
JOB 37:7 In the hand of every man he seals up, that every man should know his own weakness.
JOB 37:8 And the wild beasts entered under the protection, and are tranquil in their lair.
JOB 37:9 From out of inner chambers come griefs, and from extremities chilliness.
JOB 37:10 And from the breath of the strong one he appoints ice; and he steers the water where ever he wants.
JOB 37:11 And if a chosen cloud plasters over, then his light disperses the cloud,
JOB 37:12 and he shall turn aside the swirls by his rule for performing their works - all as much as he should give charge to them.
JOB 37:13 These things were ordered by him upon the earth. Whether for instruction, whether for his land, whether for an object of his mercy, he shall find it.
JOB 37:14 Give ear to these things, O Job! Stand admonished by the power of the LORD!
JOB 37:15 We know that God established his works, making light out of darkness.
JOB 37:16 And he knows the distinction of clouds, and the extraordinary calamitous downfalls of the wicked.
JOB 37:17 And your apparel is hot, but there is tranquility upon the earth from the south.
JOB 37:18 Will you solidify with him for things grown old; things which are strong as the vision of a vessel?
JOB 37:19 Why teach me? what shall we say to him? Then let us cease from saying much.
JOB 37:20 Is there a book or scribe standing beside me that standing I should quell a man?
JOB 37:21 But the light is not visible to all; it is radiant among the things grown old, as if from him upon the clouds.
JOB 37:22 From the north are clouds shining like gold - in these the glory and honor from the almighty is great.
JOB 37:23 And we do not find another likened to his strength. The one judging the just ones - do you not imagine that he listens?
JOB 37:24 Therefore men shall fear him; and even the wise ones in heart shall fear him.
JOB 38:1 And after the ceasing of the speech of Elihu, the LORD said to Job through a tempest and cloud, saying,
JOB 38:2 Who is this hiding counsel, and constraining matters in heart, and imagines to hide from me?
JOB 38:3 Tie up your loin as a man! And I will ask you, and you answer me!
JOB 38:4 Where were you in my laying the foundation for the earth? and report to me if you should have knowledge of understanding!
JOB 38:5 Who established the measures of it, if you know? or who is the one bringing a measuring cord upon it?
JOB 38:6 Upon what are its hooks pitched on? And who is the one laying an angular foundation stone upon it?
JOB 38:7 When stars became, all my angels praised me with a great voice.
JOB 38:8 And I shut up the sea with gates, when it was led irresistibly going forth from out of its mother's belly.
JOB 38:9 And I established the cloud for its clothing, and fog for its being swaddled.
JOB 38:10 And I established limits for it; I put in place bolts and gates.
JOB 38:11 And I said to it, Unto this far you shall come, and shall not pass over; and within yourself your waves shall break.
JOB 38:12 Or by you have I ordered the early morning brightness? And did Hesperus behold his own order;
JOB 38:13 to take hold of the wings of the earth, to shake off impious ones from it.
JOB 38:14 Or did you, having taken earth's clay, shape a living creature, and establish for it the power of speech upon the earth?
JOB 38:15 And have you removed the light from impious ones, and broke the arm of proud ones?
JOB 38:16 Did you come unto the spring of the sea, and walk in the tracks of the deep?
JOB 38:17 And do the gates of death open to you in fear? and did gatekeepers of Hades, in beholding you, become alarmed?
JOB 38:18 And have you been admonished about the breadth under heaven? Announce indeed to me how great it is!
JOB 38:19 And of what kind of land lodges the light? And darkness, what kind of place -
JOB 38:20 if you could lead me into their limits, and even if you know their paths?
JOB 38:21 Have you known that it is so then because you were born, and the number of your years great?
JOB 38:22 But did you come unto treasuries of snow? and have you seen treasuries of hail?
JOB 38:23 And is it reserved to you for the hour of the enemies, for the day of war and battle?
JOB 38:24 And from what place goes forth the frost? or the south wind is dispersed into the place under heaven?
JOB 38:25 And who prepared the flow of the fierce rain, and a way in uproar;
JOB 38:26 to rain upon the land of which there is not a man - a wilderness of which there is not a man existing in it;
JOB 38:27 so as to fill the untrodden and uninhabited land, and the causing to sprout forth the issue of tender shoots?
JOB 38:28 Who is the rain's father, and who is the one giving birth to droplets of dew?
JOB 38:29 And from out of whose womb comes forth the ice? and who gave birth to the frost in heaven,
JOB 38:30 which comes down as if water flowing? And who alarmed the face of the abyss?
JOB 38:31 And do you perceive the bond of Pleiades? and did you open the barrier of Orion?
JOB 38:32 Or will you open Mazuroth in its time? And Hesperus with its tail - will you lead it?
JOB 38:33 And do you know the circuits of heaven, or the things taking place with one accord under heaven?
JOB 38:34 And will you call a cloud by voice, and in trembling will the fierce water of rain obey you?
JOB 38:35 And will you send thunderbolts, and they shall go forth, and shall say to you, What is it?
JOB 38:36 And who gave women wisdom for a woven work, or higher knowledge for embroidery?
JOB 38:37 And who is the one counting clouds in wisdom, and leaned the heaven unto the earth,
JOB 38:38 and it is poured as earth's powder, and I have cleaved it as a stone cube?
JOB 38:39 And will you hunt prey for lions? and fill up the souls of dragons?
JOB 38:40 For they are in awe in their lairs, and sit in the woods lying in wait.
JOB 38:41 And who prepared carrion for the crow? for its young in wandering cry out to the LORD seeking grain.
JOB 39:1 Do you know the time of the birthing of antelopes of the rock? And did you watch the birth pangs of hinds?
JOB 39:2 And did you count their full months of birthing? And did you untie their birth pangs?
JOB 39:3 And did you nourish their offspring outside of fear? and will you send away their birth pangs?
JOB 39:4 Their young shall rip forth - they shall be multiplied in offspring; their young will go forth and in no way shall return to them.
JOB 39:5 And who is the one letting the wild donkey free? and who untied his bonds?
JOB 39:6 For I established for his habitation a wilderness, and the salt-flats for his tents.
JOB 39:7 He ridicules the great multitude of the city, and hears not the complaint of the tribute-gatherer.
JOB 39:8 He shall survey the mountains as his pasture, and he seeks after every green thing.
JOB 39:9 And shall the unicorn be willing to serve to you, or to sleep at your stable?
JOB 39:10 And will you tie his yoke with straps? or will he draw furrows in the plain?
JOB 39:11 And do you rely upon him, because of his great strength? And will you slacken your works for him?
JOB 39:12 And do you trust that he will give back to you the seed, and carry it into your threshing-floor?
JOB 39:13 The wing delighting ostriches; but should the stork and feathers conceive?
JOB 39:14 For she shall let her eggs go unto the earth, and she shall incubate upon the dust.
JOB 39:15 And she forgot that the foot will disperse them, and the wild beasts of the field will trample them.
JOB 39:16 She hardened against her offspring, so as to not bereave herself; in vain she tired without fear;
JOB 39:17 for God quelled her wisdom, and portioned not to her with understanding;
JOB 39:18 in time she will raise up high in height; she will ridicule the horse and his rider.
JOB 39:19 Or did you invest the horse with power, or clothe his neck in fear?
JOB 39:20 And did you invest in him full armor, and the glory of his breast in daring?
JOB 39:21 He prances rooting up in the plain, and goes forth into the plain in strength.
JOB 39:22 He ridicules meeting up with spears, and in no way turns from an iron weapon.
JOB 39:23 Against him prance the bow and sword;
JOB 39:24 and in anger he shall obliterate the ground. In no way shall he trust until whenever the trumpet signifies;
JOB 39:25 and with the trumpet signifying, he says, Well done! And at a distance he smells war with leaping and crying out.
JOB 39:26 And from your higher knowledge does the hawk station having the look of effrontery with wings fixed looking down towards the south?
JOB 39:27 And at your order does the eagle rise up high, and a vulture sit lodged upon its nest,
JOB 39:28 upon the prominence of a rock and is concealed,
JOB 39:29 being at that place he seeks grain; and his eyes watch at a distance,
JOB 39:30 and his young befoul themselves in blood, and where ever ones dying might be, immediately they are found?
JOB 40:1 And the LORD God responded to Job, and said,
JOB 40:2 Shall you judge a judgment with the fit one? One reproving God - shall he answer to him?
JOB 40:3 And undertaking, Job says to the LORD,
JOB 40:4 Why still do I plead, being admonished and reproved by the LORD? hearing such things, and being nothing. And I, what answer shall I give to these things? I shall put a hand upon my mouth.
JOB 40:5 Once I have spoken; but for a second time, I will not proceed.
JOB 40:6 And again undertaking, the LORD spoke to Job from out of the cloud, saying,
JOB 40:7 But no, tie up your loin as a man, and I will ask you, then you answer me!
JOB 40:8 Or should you undo my judgment? and do you imagine me otherwise executing things with you? or that you should appear just?
JOB 40:9 Or is your arm as the arm of the LORD? or do you thunder with a voice as him?
JOB 40:10 Then lift yourself up in stature and power, and clothe yourself with glory and honor!
JOB 40:11 And send angels in anger, and humble all the arrogant!
JOB 40:12 And extinguish the proud man, and cause impious ones to rot immediately!
JOB 40:13 And hide them in the earth with one accord, and the things of their faces fill with dishonor!
JOB 40:14 Then indeed I shall acknowledge surely that your right hand is able to deliver.
JOB 40:15 But indeed, behold, the wild beast by you; it eats grass equal to oxen.
JOB 40:16 Behold indeed, his strength is in his loin, and his power is in the navel of his belly.
JOB 40:17 He sets his tail as a cypress; and his nerves are closely joined.
JOB 40:18 His sides are sides of brass; and his spine is as cast iron.
JOB 40:19 This is the beginning of the thing shaped by the LORD; being made to be mocked by his angels.
JOB 40:20 And coming upon a chiseled mountain, he produces a cause for joy to the four-footed in the infernal region.
JOB 40:21 Under all kinds of trees he sleeps - by the papyrus, and reed, and flowering rush.
JOB 40:22 And trees shadow in him with scions, and branches of the chaste tree.
JOB 40:23 If there becomes an inundation, in no way shall it be perceived. He relies that the Jordan will rush up into his mouth.
JOB 40:24 In his eye, will one take him? being caught in a snare, will you drill his nose?
JOB 41:1 And will you lead a dragon by a hook? and will you put a halter around his nose?
JOB 41:2 Or will you tie a hook in his nose, and will you make a hole in his lip for a clasp?
JOB 41:3 And will he speak to you earnest supplications softly?
JOB 41:4 And will he establish a covenant with you? and will you take him for an everlasting servant?
JOB 41:5 And will you play with him as a bird? or will you bind him as a sparrow for a child?
JOB 41:6 And do nations feed in him? and do the nations of the Phoenicians partition him?
JOB 41:7 And everything afloat coming together in no way shall bear the hide of his one tail; nor in the boats of fishermen shall they bear his head.
JOB 41:8 But shall you place a hand on him, remembering war taking place in his body, and let it no longer take place?
JOB 41:9 Have you not seen him, nor wondered over the ones speaking?
JOB 41:10 Are you not in awe that it has been prepared by me? for who is the one opposing me?
JOB 41:11 Or who shall oppose me, and remain? since all under heaven is mine.
JOB 41:12 I will not keep silent because of him; and the word of power shall show mercy equal to him.
JOB 41:13 Who will uncover the front of his clothing? and into the fold of his chest plate who can enter?
JOB 41:14 Who will open the gates of his face? Round about his teeth is fear.
JOB 41:15 His insides are as shields of brass, and his sinews are as emery stone;
JOB 41:16 one unto the one cleaves, and wind in no way should go through it;
JOB 41:17 as a man to his brother - they shall be cleaved; they are held together, and in no way should they draw apart.
JOB 41:18 In his sneezing brightness shines forth, and his eyes are as the appearance of Hesperus.
JOB 41:19 From out of his mouth burning lamps shall go forth, and scattered grates of fire.
JOB 41:20 From out of his nostrils comes forth smoke of a furnace, burning with coals of fire.
JOB 41:21 His soul is as live coals, and a flame goes forth from out of his mouth.
JOB 41:22 And in his neck lodges power; destruction runs before him.
JOB 41:23 And the flesh of his body cleaves tightly; if one pours down upon him, he will not be shaken.
JOB 41:24 His heart is fixed as stone, and he stands as an anvil, not malleable.
JOB 41:25 And his turning gives fear to the four-footed wild beasts leaping upon the earth.
JOB 41:26 If lances should meet up with him, nothing in any way shall terrify by spear and chest plate.
JOB 41:27 For he esteems iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.
JOB 41:28 In no way shall the bow of brass pierce him; he esteems a slinger indeed as grass.
JOB 41:29 Hammers are considered as stubble; and he ridicules the quaking of a fire-bearer.
JOB 41:30 His strewn bed is of sharp points, and all the gold of the sea under him is as untold mud.
JOB 41:31 The abyss breaks out as a brazen cauldron, and he esteems the sea as an ointment jar.
JOB 41:32 And the infernal region of the abyss is as if a captive; he considers the abyss for a promenade.
JOB 41:33 There is not anything upon the earth likened to him, being made, to be mocked at by my angels.
JOB 41:34 Every lofty thing he sees, and he is king of all the things in the waters.
JOB 42:1 And undertaking, Job says to the LORD,
JOB 42:2 I know that in all things you are able, and nothing is powerless to you.
JOB 42:3 For who is the one hiding you counsel, and sparing words, and imagines to hide you? And who announces to me things which I knew not, great and wonderful things which I had not knowledge of?
JOB 42:4 But hear me, O LORD, that I also shall speak! And I will ask you, and you teach me!
JOB 42:5 Hearing indeed in my ear, I heard of you formerly; but now my eye sees you.
JOB 42:6 Therefore I treated myself as worthless, and I was melted away; and I esteem myself earth and ashes.
JOB 42:7 And it came to pass after the LORD speaking all these words to Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, You sinned, and your two friends; for you spoke not anything before me true, as my attendant Job.
JOB 42:8 And now, take seven calves, and seven rams, and go to my attendant Job, and he shall offer a yield offering for you! For shall not I receive of his face. For if not on account of him I would have destroyed you. For you did not speak true concerning my attendant Job.
JOB 42:9 And they went - Eliphaz the Temanite, and Baldad the Shuhite, and Sophar the Minean. And they went as the LORD ordered them. And he dismissed their sin because of Job.
JOB 42:10 And the LORD increased Job. And of his making a vow, and because of being his friends, he forgave to them the sin. And the LORD gave double, as much as was Job's before, by doubling.
JOB 42:11 And all his brothers and his sisters heard all the things coming to pass to him. And they came to him, even all as many as knew him at first. And eating and drinking with him, they comforted him. And they wondered upon all which the LORD brought upon him. And they each gave to him one ewe-lamb, and a four-drachma piece of unmarked gold.
JOB 42:12 And the LORD blessed the latter end of Job than the former. And his cattle was - ten thousand four thousand sheep; six thousand camels; a thousand teams of oxen; a thousand female grazing donkeys.
JOB 42:13 And there were born to him seven sons and three daughters.
JOB 42:14 And he called the first, Day, and the second, Keziah, and the third, Amalthaia's Horn.
JOB 42:15 And were not found, according to the daughters of Job, any better than they among the places under heaven. And their father gave to them an inheritance among the brothers.
JOB 42:16 And Job lived after the calamity a hundred forty years. And Job saw his sons, and the sons of his sons, to the fourth generation.
JOB 42:17 And Job came to an end an old man and full of days.
PSA 1:1 Blessed is a man who went not in the counsel of impious ones, and stood not in the way of sinners, and sat not upon a chair of mischievous ones.
PSA 1:2 But his will is in the law of the LORD; and in his law he shall meditate day and night.
PSA 1:3 And he will be as the tree being planted by the outlets of the waters, which gives his fruit in his season; and his leaf shall not drop down; and all as much as he should do will greatly prosper.
PSA 1:4 Not so the impious ones, not so; but are as dust which the wind casts forth from the face of the earth.
PSA 1:5 On account of this the impious ones shall not rise up in judgment, nor sinners in a counsel of just ones.
PSA 1:6 For the LORD knows the way of just ones; but the way of impious ones shall perish.
PSA 2:1 A psalm to David. Why do nations neigh, and peoples meditate vain things?
PSA 2:2 The kings of the earth stood by, and the rulers gathered together against the LORD, and against his Christ, saying,
PSA 2:3 We should tear up their bonds, and throw away from us their yoke.
PSA 2:4 The one dwelling in heavens laughs out loud at them; and the LORD derides them.
PSA 2:5 Then he shall speak to them in his anger, and in his rage shall disturb them.
PSA 2:6 But I was placed king by him over mount Zion, his holy place,
PSA 2:7 declaring the order of the LORD. The LORD said to me, You are my son, I today engendered you.
PSA 2:8 Ask from me, and I will give to you nations for your inheritance, and for your possession the ends of the earth!
PSA 2:9 You shall tend them with a rod of iron; as vessels of a potter you shall break them.
PSA 2:10 And now, O kings, perceive! Let all the ones judging the earth be instructed!
PSA 2:11 Serve to the LORD in fear, and exult to him with trembling!
PSA 2:12 Grab instruction, lest at any time you should provoke the LORD to anger, and you shall perish from the just way, whenever his rage should be kindled quickly! Blessed are all the ones yielding upon him.
PSA 3:1 A psalm to David, when he ran away from the face of Absalom his son. O LORD, why were the ones afflicting me multiplied? Many rise up against me.
PSA 3:2 Many say to my soul, There is not a deliverance to him by his God. PAUSE.
PSA 3:3 But you, O LORD, are my shielder; my glory, and the one raising up my head.
PSA 3:4 I cried out my voice to the LORD, and he heeded me from out of his holy mountain.
PSA 3:5 And I went to bed and slept; I woke up; for the LORD shall assist me.
PSA 3:6 I shall not fear from ten thousands of people round about joining in attacking me.
PSA 3:7 Rise up, O LORD! Deliver me, O my God! For you struck all the ones hating me for no cause; you broke the teeth of sinners.
PSA 3:8 Deliverance is of the LORD; and your blessing is upon your people.
PSA 4:1 For the director in hymns; a psalm to David. In my calling, the God of my righteousness heard me; in affliction he widened me; pity me, and hear my prayer!
PSA 4:2 O sons of men, until when will you ease being heavy hearted? Why do you love folly, and seek a lie?
PSA 4:3 And know that the LORD did a wonder for his sacred one! The LORD shall hear me in my crying out to him.
PSA 4:4 Be angry, and do not sin! What you say in your hearts, let be vexed upon your beds! PAUSE.
PSA 4:5 Sacrifice a sacrifice of righteousness, and hope upon the LORD!
PSA 4:6 Many say, Who shall show to us the good things? The light of your face was signified upon us, O LORD.
PSA 4:7 You put gladness into my heart. Of the fruit of the grain, wine and olive oil - they were filled of them.
PSA 4:8 In peace I will go to bed upon the same place and sleep. For you, O LORD, alone settled me upon hope.
PSA 5:1 To the director; for the one inheriting; a psalm to David. Give ear to my words, O LORD! Take notice of my cry!
PSA 5:2 Take heed to the voice of my supplication, my king and my God! For to you I shall pray, O LORD.
PSA 5:3 In the morning you shall hear my voice. In the morning I shall stand beside you, and he shall watch me.
PSA 5:4 For you are not God wanting lawlessness, nor shall one being wicked sojourn with you;
PSA 5:5 nor shall lawbreakers abide in front of your eyes. You detested all the ones working lawlessness.
PSA 5:6 You shall destroy all the ones speaking the lie. A man of blood and deceitful the LORD abhors.
PSA 5:7 But I, in the multitude of your mercy, shall enter into your house. I shall do obeisance towards your holy temple in fear of you.
PSA 5:8 O LORD, guide me in your righteousness, because of my enemies! Straighten out my way before you!
PSA 5:9 For there is not truth in their mouth; their heart is vain; their throat is a tomb having been opened; with their tongues they used deceit.
PSA 5:10 Judge them, O God! Let them fall away from their deliberations! According to the multitude of their impieties banish them! For they rebelled against you, O LORD.
PSA 5:11 And may all hoping upon you be glad. They shall exult into the eon, and you shall encamp with them. And the ones loving your name shall boast in you.
PSA 5:12 For you shall bless a just one, O LORD. As a shield of benevolence you crowned us.
PSA 6:1 To the director in hymns; for the eighth; a psalm to David. O LORD, you should not reprove me in your rage, nor in your anger correct me.
PSA 6:2 Show mercy on me, O LORD! for I am weak. Heal me, O LORD! for my bones are disturbed.
PSA 6:3 And my soul is disturbed exceedingly. But you, O LORD, until when?
PSA 6:4 Return, O LORD, rescue my soul! Deliver me because of your mercy!
PSA 6:5 For there is not a remembering you in death; and in Hades, who shall make acknowledgement to you?
PSA 6:6 I tired in my moaning; I shall bathe my bed according to each night with my tears - I shall rain my strewn bed.
PSA 6:7 My eye is disturbed from rage; I grow old in all my enemies.
PSA 6:8 Remove from me all the ones working lawlessness! for the LORD heard the sound of my weeping.
PSA 6:9 The LORD listened to my supplication. The LORD favorably received my prayer.
PSA 6:10 May they be put to shame, and may they be disturbed - all my enemies; may they be turned back, and put to shame exceedingly, even quickly.
PSA 7:1 A psalm to David which he sang to the LORD, because of the words of Cush son of Benjamin. O LORD my God, upon you I hope. Deliver me from all the ones pursuing me, and rescue me!
PSA 7:2 Lest at any time my soul should be snatched away as by a lion, while there is none being for ransoming nor delivering.
PSA 7:3 O LORD my God, if I did this, if there is injustice in my hands,
PSA 7:4 if I recompensed to the ones recompensing to me bad things, may I fall away thus from my enemies empty -
PSA 7:5 may then the enemy pursue my soul, and may he overtake, and may he trample my life into the ground, and may my glory be encamped in dust.
PSA 7:6 Rise up, O LORD, in your anger! Be raised up high in the limits of your enemies! And awaken, O LORD my God, in the order in which you gave charge!
PSA 7:7 And a gathering of peoples shall encircle you; and for this return unto the height!
PSA 7:8 The LORD judges peoples. Judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness; and according to my innocence judge for me!
PSA 7:9 Finish off entirely indeed the wickedness of sinners! And you shall straighten a just one, examining hearts and kidneys, O God, justly.
PSA 7:10 My help is from God, of the one delivering the straight in the heart.
PSA 7:11 God is a just judge, and strong, and lenient, not bringing on anger according to each day.
PSA 7:12 If you should not turn, he will brighten his broadsword. His bow he stretched tight, and he prepared it;
PSA 7:13 and by it he prepared weapons of death; he brought to completion his arrows for the ones for burning.
PSA 7:14 Behold, the wicked travails with iniquity; he conceived misery, and gave birth to lawlessness;
PSA 7:15 he dug up a pit - even he dug it, and he shall fall into a cesspool which he worked.
PSA 7:16 His misery shall return unto his own head, and his injustice shall come down upon his head.
PSA 7:17 I shall make acknowledgment to the LORD according to his righteousness; and I shall strum to the name of the LORD the highest.
PSA 8:1 To the director; for the wine vats; a psalm to David. O LORD, our Lord, how wonderful is your name in all the earth. For your majesty was lifted up above the heavens.
PSA 8:2 From out of mouths of infants and ones nursing you ready praise because of your enemies, to depose an enemy and an avenger.
PSA 8:3 For I shall see the heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and stars which you founded.
PSA 8:4 What is man that you remember him? or a son of man that you visit him?
PSA 8:5 You lessened him short of any of the angels; with glory and honor you crowned him;
PSA 8:6 and you placed him over the works of your hands. All things you submitted underneath his feet -
PSA 8:7 sheep and oxen all together, and still also the cattle of the plain,
PSA 8:8 the winged creatures of the heaven, and the fishes of the sea traveling over the paths of the seas.
PSA 8:9 O LORD, our Lord, how wonderful is your name in all the earth.
PSA 9:1 To the director; for the private things of the son; a psalm to David. I shall make acknowledgment to you, O LORD, with my entire heart. I shall describe all your wonders.
PSA 9:2 I will be glad and exult in you. I shall strum to your name, O highest one.
PSA 9:3 In the turning of my enemy unto the rear, they shall weaken and be destroyed from your face.
PSA 9:4 For you made my case and my cause. You sat upon the throne judging righteousness.
PSA 9:5 You reproached nations, and the impious one perished. You wiped away his name into the eon, and into the eon of the eon.
PSA 9:6 The broadswords of the enemy failed unto the end; and you demolished cities; his memorial was destroyed with noise.
PSA 9:7 And the LORD abides into the eon. He prepared his throne for judgment.
PSA 9:8 And he will judge the inhabitable world in righteousness. He shall judge peoples with uprightness.
PSA 9:9 And the LORD became a refuge to the needy; a helper at an opportune time in afflictions.
PSA 9:10 And the ones knowing your name hope upon you; for you abandoned not the ones seeking after you, O LORD.
PSA 9:11 Strum to the LORD, to the one dwelling in Zion! Announce among the nations his practices!
PSA 9:12 For the one requiring their blood he remembered. He did not forget the cry of the needy.
PSA 9:13 Show mercy on me, O LORD! Behold my humiliation from my enemies! O one raising me from the gates of death;
PSA 9:14 so that I should publish all your praise at the gates of the daughter of Zion. We will exult over your deliverance.
PSA 9:15 The nations were stuck in corruption which they produced; their foot was seized by this snare which they hid.
PSA 9:16 The LORD is known by executing judgments. By the works of his hands the sinner is seized. AN ODE.
PSA 9:17 Let the sinners be turned to Hades! even all the nations forgetting God.
PSA 9:18 For the poor shall not be forgotten at the end; the patience of the needy ones shall not perish to the end.
PSA 9:19 Rise up, O LORD, do not let man overpower! Let the nations be judged before you!
PSA 9:20 Place, O LORD, a lawgiver over them! Let the nations know that they are men!
PSA 10:1 Why, O LORD, have you abstained far off, and neglected at opportune times in afflictions?
PSA 10:2 In the being prideful by the impious one, the poor one is burnt. They are seized by the deliberations which they argue.
PSA 10:3 For the sinner applauds in the desires of his soul, and the one doing wrong blesses himself.
PSA 10:4 The sinner provoked the LORD according to the magnitude of his anger. He shall not seek after God; God is not before him.
PSA 10:5 His ways are profane at all time; your judgments are taken away from in front of him. He shall dominate all his enemies,
PSA 10:6 for he said in his heart, In no way should I be shaken from generation to generation; I shall exist without bad happening.
PSA 10:7 Whose curse his mouth is full of, and bitterness, and treachery; under his tongue is toil and misery.
PSA 10:8 He lies in wait to ambush with the rich in concealment, to kill the innocent. His eyes look against the needy.
PSA 10:9 He lies in wait in concealment as a lion in his lair; he lies in wait to snatch away the poor; to snatch away the poor when he draws him. In his snare he humbles him.
PSA 10:10 He shall bow and fall in his dominating the needy,
PSA 10:11 for he said in his heart, God has been forgotten, he turned his face to not see into the end.
PSA 10:12 Rise up, O LORD my God! Raise up high your hand to not forget your needy unto the end!
PSA 10:13 For what reason did the impious one provoke God to anger? For he said in his heart, He shall not require an account.
PSA 10:14 You see, for you contemplate misery and rage, to deliver him into your hands. The poor abandoned himself to you; to the orphan you were a helper.
PSA 10:15 Break the arm of the sinner and wicked one! His sin shall be sought for, and in no way shall he be found.
PSA 10:16 The LORD is king into the eon, and into the eon of the eon. You shall be destroyed, O nations, from out of his land.
PSA 10:17 You heard the desire of the needy, O LORD, your ear took heed to the preparation of their heart,
PSA 10:18 to judge orphans, and the humble; that man should not proceed still to brag upon the earth.
PSA 11:1 For the director; a psalm to David. Upon the LORD I have yielded. How shall you say to my soul, Migrate unto the mountains as a sparrow?
PSA 11:2 For behold, the sinners stretch tight the bow, they prepare arrows for the quiver, to shoot in moonlight the straight in the heart.
PSA 11:3 That which you readied, they demolished; but the just one, what did he do?
PSA 11:4 The LORD is in his holy temple; the LORD is in heaven his throne; his eyes pay attention unto the needy; his eyelids inquire diligently of the sons of men.
PSA 11:5 The LORD inquires diligently to the just one and the impious one; but the one loving injustice detests his own soul.
PSA 11:6 He shall rain snares upon sinners; fire and sulphur and a gale wind shall be the portion of their cup.
PSA 11:7 For the LORD is just, and he loves righteousness; his face perceived straightness.
PSA 12:1 To the director; for the eighth; a psalm to David. Deliver me, O LORD! For the sacred one has failed; for the ones in truths were lessened from the sons of men.
PSA 12:2 Each spoke vanity to his neighbor. Deceitful lips are in the heart, and by the heart he spoke evils.
PSA 12:3 Let the LORD utterly destroy all the deceitful lips, and lofty speaking tongue!
PSA 12:4 The ones having said, We will magnify our tongue; our lips are for us; who is our lord?
PSA 12:5 Because of the misery of the poor, and the moaning of the needy, now I will arise, says the LORD; I will establish in deliverance, I will speak openly in him.
PSA 12:6 The oracles of the LORD are pure oracles; as silver tried in fire, proved in the earth, being purified seven-fold.
PSA 12:7 You, O LORD, shall guard us, and you shall carefully keep us from this generation, and into the eon.
PSA 12:8 The impious ones walk round about. According to your stature you took great care of the sons of men.
PSA 13:1 To the director; a psalm to David. For how long, O LORD, will you forget me - unto the end? For how long do you turn your face from me?
PSA 13:2 Until what time shall I set plans in my soul, with griefs in my heart day and night? For how long shall my enemy be exalted over me?
PSA 13:3 Look upon, hear me, O LORD my God! Enlighten my eyes, lest at any time I should sleep in death;
PSA 13:4 lest at any time my enemy might say, I prevailed against him! The ones afflicting me shall exult if I should be shaken.
PSA 13:5 But I hoped upon your mercy; my heart shall exult over your deliverance.
PSA 13:6 I shall sing to the LORD benefiting me; and I will strum to the name of the LORD the highest.
PSA 14:1 To the director; a psalm to David. The foolish one said in his heart, There is not God. They were corrupted and abhorrent in their practices. There is not one doing that which is good.
PSA 14:2 The LORD from out of heaven looked upon the sons of men, to see if there is one perceiving or inquiring of God.
PSA 14:3 All turned aside together, they were made useless. There is not one doing that which is good - there is not even one.
PSA 14:4 Do all the ones working lawlessness not know, the ones devouring my people as the food of bread? They called not upon the LORD.
PSA 14:5 There they were timid with fear, of which there was not anything to fear; for God is with a just generation.
PSA 14:6 The counsel of the poor you disgraced, for the LORD is his hope.
PSA 14:7 Who will grant from Zion the deliverance of Israel? In the LORD turning the captivity of his people, Jacob shall exult, and Israel shall be glad.
PSA 15:1 A psalm to David. O LORD, who shall sojourn in your tent, or who shall encamp in your holy mountain?
PSA 15:2 Even the one going unblemished, and working righteousness, speaking truth in his heart,
PSA 15:3 who did not speak treacherously with his tongue, and did not do bad to his neighbor, and did not take up scorning against the ones near him.
PSA 15:4 The one acting wickedly is treated with contempt before him; but the one fearing the LORD he glorifies, even the one swearing by an oath to his neighbor, and not annulling it,
PSA 15:5 and his money he did not give for interest, and bribes from the innocent he did not take. The one doing these things shall not be shaken into the eon.
PSA 16:1 An inscription on a monument; to David. Guard me, O LORD, for upon you I hoped!
PSA 16:2 I said to the LORD, You are my LORD, for you have not a need of my goodness.
PSA 16:3 The LORD wondered over the holy ones in his land, all his willing ones among them.
PSA 16:4 Their weaknesses were multiplied - they that hastened after these gods. In no way shall I bring together the ones of their gathering for blood, nor in any way shall I mention their names through my lips.
PSA 16:5 The LORD is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup. You are the one restoring my inheritance to me.
PSA 16:6 The measuring lines fallen to me in the most excellent places. Yes, for my inheritance is to me most excellent.
PSA 16:7 I will bless the LORD, the one bringing understanding to me. But still also until night my kidneys corrected me.
PSA 16:8 I foresaw the LORD before me always. For he is on my right, that I should not be shaken.
PSA 16:9 On account of this my heart was glad, and my tongue exulted; and still also my flesh shall encamp in hope.
PSA 16:10 For you shall not abandon my soul in Hades, nor shall you give your sacred one to see corruption.
PSA 16:11 You made known to me the ways of life. You shall fill me of gladness with your face; delightfulness is at your right unto the end.
PSA 17:1 A prayer to David. Hear, O LORD, my righteousness! Take heed to my supplication! Give ear to my prayer not uttered by deceitful lips!
PSA 17:2 May my judgment come forth from your presence; let my eyes behold uprightness!
PSA 17:3 You tried my heart; you visited at night; you set me on fire, and injustice was not found in me; so that my mouth should not speak.
PSA 17:4 Concerning the works of men, by the words of your lips I guarded hard ways.
PSA 17:5 Fashion my footsteps in your roads, that my footsteps should not be shaken!
PSA 17:6 I cried, for you heeded me, O God. Lean your ear to me, and hear my words!
PSA 17:7 Show the wonder of your mercies, O one delivering the ones hoping upon you, from the ones opposing at your right!
PSA 17:8 Guard me, O LORD, as the pupil of the eye! Under the protection of your wings shelter me,
PSA 17:9 from the face of impious ones causing misery for me! My enemies compass my soul;
PSA 17:10 they are enclosed in their own fat; their mouth speaks pride;
PSA 17:11 they are casting me out now; they surrounded me - the ones with their eyes set to turn me to the ground;
PSA 17:12 as a lion prepared for a hunt they undertook me, even as a cub living in concealment.
PSA 17:13 Rise up, O LORD! be there beforehand with them, and trip them! Rescue my soul from an impious one by your broadsword;
PSA 17:14 from the enemies by your hand, O LORD, from the few of the earth. Divide them in their life! And of your things being hidden their belly was filled - they were filled of sons, and the remnants they leave to their infants.
PSA 17:15 But I shall appear in front of you in righteousness. I shall be filled in your glory appearing to me.
PSA 18:1 To the director; to the servant of the LORD; to David; what he spoke to the LORD; the words of this ode, in the day in which the LORD rescued him from out of the hand of all his enemies, and from out of the hand of Saul. And he said; I shall love you, O LORD, of my strength.
PSA 18:2 The LORD is my firmament, and my refuge, and my rescuer. My God is my helper, and I will hope upon him; my defender and horn of my deliverance, and my shielder.
PSA 18:3 In praising, I will call upon the LORD, and from my enemies I shall be delivered.
PSA 18:4 Pangs of death compassed me, and rushing streams of lawlessness disturbed me.
PSA 18:5 Pangs of Hades surrounded me; snares of death anticipated me.
PSA 18:6 And in my being afflicted I called upon the LORD, and to my God I cried out. He heard my voice from out of his holy temple, and my cry before him shall enter into his ears.
PSA 18:7 And it was shaken - and trembling took place on the earth; and the foundations of the mountains were disturbed and shaken, for God was provoked to anger by them.
PSA 18:8 Smoke ascended in his anger, and fire from in front of him. Coals shall be ignited - they were lit by him.
PSA 18:9 And he leaned the heavens, and came down; and dimness was under his feet.
PSA 18:10 And he mounted upon cherubim, and spread out; he spread out upon wings of winds.
PSA 18:11 And he established darkness for his concealment. Round about him was his tent - dark water in clouds of air.
PSA 18:12 From the radiance of his presence the clouds went by - hail and coals of fire.
PSA 18:13 And the LORD thundered from out of heaven, and the highest uttered his voice.
PSA 18:14 And he sent out arrows, and dispersed them; and he multiplied lightnings, and disturbed them.
PSA 18:15 And appeared the springs of waters, and the foundations of the inhabitable world were uncovered from your reproach, O LORD, from the blasting breath of your anger.
PSA 18:16 He sent from the height, and he took me; he took me to himself from out of many waters.
PSA 18:17 He will rescue me from my mighty enemies, and from the ones detesting me; for they are more solidified than me.
PSA 18:18 They went before me in the day of my ill-treatment, and the LORD became my support.
PSA 18:19 And he brought me into an enlargement. He shall rescue me, for he wanted me.
PSA 18:20 And the LORD shall recompense to me according to my righteousness; even according to the cleanliness of my hands he will recompense to me.
PSA 18:21 For I guarded the ways of the LORD, and did not impiously depart from my God.
PSA 18:22 For all his judgments are before me, and his ordinances did not leave from me.
PSA 18:23 And I will be unblemished with him, and I shall guard myself from my lawlessness.
PSA 18:24 And the LORD shall recompense to me according to my righteousness, and according to the cleanliness of my hands before his eyes.
PSA 18:25 With the sacred you shall be sacred; and with the innocent man you shall be innocent;
PSA 18:26 and with the choice one you shall be choice; and with the crooked you shall turn aside from.
PSA 18:27 For you will deliver the humble people, and the eyes of the proud you will humble.
PSA 18:28 For you shall light my lamp, O LORD my God; you shall lighten my darkness.
PSA 18:29 For by you I shall be rescued from the band of marauders; and by my God I shall pass over the wall.
PSA 18:30 My God - unblemished is his way. The oracles of the LORD are tried by fire. He is a defender of all the ones hoping upon him.
PSA 18:31 For who is God besides the LORD? Or who is God besides our God?
PSA 18:32 God is the one girding me with power, and makes my way unblemished;
PSA 18:33 the one readying my feet as a stag, and setting me upon the high places;
PSA 18:34 teaching my hands for war; and you made my arms as the bow of brass;
PSA 18:35 and you gave to me a shielding deliverance; and your right hand takes hold of me; and your instruction re-erects me unto the end; and your instruction itself teaches me.
PSA 18:36 You widened my footsteps underneath me, and my soles weakened not.
PSA 18:37 I shall pursue my enemies and overtake them, and I will not return until whenever they should cease.
PSA 18:38 I shall squeeze them, and in no way should they be able to stand; they shall fall under my feet.
PSA 18:39 And you girded me in power for war; you bound hand and foot all the ones rising up against me underneath me.
PSA 18:40 And you gave to me the back of my enemies; and the ones detesting me you utterly destroyed.
PSA 18:41 They cried out to the LORD and there was not one delivering, and he did not hear them.
PSA 18:42 And I will make them as fine as dust against the face of the wind; as mud in the squares I will grind them.
PSA 18:43 You shall rescue me from a dispute of people; you shall place me at the head of nations; a people whom I knew not shall serve to me;
PSA 18:44 in the hearing of the ear they obeyed me. Alien sons lied to me.
PSA 18:45 Alien sons grew old and became lame from their paths.
PSA 18:46 The LORD lives, and blessed is God; even the God of my deliverance is raised up high;
PSA 18:47 the God granting acts of vengeance to me, and submitting peoples under me;
PSA 18:48 my rescuer from my enemies prone to anger. You raised me up high from the ones rising up against me; from the unjust man you shall rescue me.
PSA 18:49 On account of this I shall make acknowledgment to you among the nations, O LORD, and to your name I shall strum;
PSA 18:50 the one magnifying the deliverance of the king; and appointing mercy to his anointed one, to David and to his seed unto the eon.
PSA 19:1 For the director; a psalm to David. The heavens describe the glory of God; and the firmament announces the making of his hands.
PSA 19:2 Day to day bubbles up a saying; and night unto night announces knowledge.
PSA 19:3 There are not speeches nor words which their voices are not heard.
PSA 19:4 Into all the earth went forth their knell; and unto the ends of the inhabitable world their words. He put his tent in the sun.
PSA 19:5 And he, as a groom going forth from out of his nuptial chamber, shall exult as a giant running a journey.
PSA 19:6 From one tip of the heaven is his exiting, and his arrival unto the other tip of the heaven; and there is not one who shall be concealed from his heat.
PSA 19:7 The law of the lord is unblemished, turning souls. The witness of the LORD is trustworthy, making wise the infants.
PSA 19:8 The ordinances of the LORD are straight, making glad the heart. The commandment of the LORD is radiant, giving light to the eyes.
PSA 19:9 The fear of the LORD is pure, abiding into the eon of the eon. The judgments of the LORD are true, doing justice to the same;
PSA 19:10 desirable above gold, and much precious stone; and sweeter above honey and the honeycomb.
PSA 19:11 For also your servant guards them - in the guarding of them there is great reward.
PSA 19:12 Who shall perceive his transgressions? From out of my private transgressions cleanse me!
PSA 19:13 And from the aliens spare your servant! If they should not dominate me, then I will be unblemished, and I shall be cleansed of great sin.
PSA 19:14 And the oracles of my mouth will be for benevolence, and the meditation of my heart before you always, O LORD, my helper, and the one ransoming me.
PSA 20:1 To the director; a psalm to David. Let the LORD heed you in the day of affliction! Let the name of the God of Jacob shield you!
PSA 20:2 May he send to you help from the holy place, and from Zion may he assist you.
PSA 20:3 May every sacrifice of yours be remembered; and let him fatten your whole burnt offering!
PSA 20:4 May the LORD give to you according to your heart, and fulfill all your plans.
PSA 20:5 We will exult over your deliverance, and in the name of the LORD our God we will be magnified. May the LORD fill all your requests.
PSA 20:6 Now I knew that the LORD delivered his anointed one; he shall heed him from out of his holy heaven. By dominations is the deliverance of his right hand.
PSA 20:7 These in chariots, and these in horses; but we shall call in the name of the LORD our God.
PSA 20:8 They are bound hand and foot, and they fall; but we rose up and were re-erected.
PSA 20:9 O LORD, preserve the king, and heed us in what ever day we should call upon you!
PSA 21:1 A psalm to David. O LORD, the king shall be glad in your power; and over your deliverance he shall exult exceedingly.
PSA 21:2 The desire of his heart you gave to him; and the supplication of his lips you did not deprive him.
PSA 21:3 For you were with him beforehand in blessings of graciousness. You put upon his head a crown of precious stone.
PSA 21:4 He asked life of you, and you gave to him duration of days, into the eon of the eon.
PSA 21:5 His glory is great in your deliverance; glory and majesty you shall place upon him.
PSA 21:6 For you shall give to him a blessing into the eon of the eon; you shall gladden him with joy with your countenance.
PSA 21:7 For the king hopes upon the LORD, and in the mercy of the highest in no way shall he be shaken.
PSA 21:8 May your hand be found by all your enemies; may your right hand be found by all the ones detesting you.
PSA 21:9 For you shall put them as an oven of fire in the time of your person. The LORD in his anger disturbs them, and fire shall devour them.
PSA 21:10 You shall destroy their fruit from the earth, and their seed from the sons of men.
PSA 21:11 For they leaned bad things to you; they argued over plans which in no way might they be able to establish.
PSA 21:12 For you shall put their back among your residue; you shall prepare their front.
PSA 21:13 Be raised up high, O LORD, in your power! We shall sing and strum of your dominations.
PSA 22:1 To the director; for the assistance of the early morning; a psalm to David. O God, my God, take heed to me! Why did you abandon me? The words of my transgressions are far from my deliverance.
PSA 22:2 My God, I shall cry out by day, and you do not hear; and by night and it shall not be accounted for thoughtlessness to me.
PSA 22:3 But you dwell in the holy place - the high praise of Israel.
PSA 22:4 Upon you our fathers hoped - they hoped, and you rescued them.
PSA 22:5 To you they cried out, and they were delivered; upon you they hoped, and they were not disgraced.
PSA 22:6 But I am a worm, and not a man; the scorn of men, and a contemptible thing of people.
PSA 22:7 All the ones viewing me derided me; they speak with their lips, they shook their head, saying,
PSA 22:8 He hoped upon the LORD, let him rescue him! Let him deliver him! For he desired him.
PSA 22:9 For you are the one pulling me from the womb; my hope from the breasts of my mother.
PSA 22:10 I was cast upon you from the womb; from out of the belly of my mother you are my God.
PSA 22:11 You should not separate from me, for affliction is near; for there is not one helping me.
PSA 22:12 Many calves surround me; hearty bulls compass me.
PSA 22:13 They opened their mouths against me, as a lion snatching away and roaring.
PSA 22:14 As water was poured out, even all my bones were dispersed; my heart became as beeswax melting away in the midst of my belly.
PSA 22:15 My strength was dried as a potsherd, and my tongue cleaves to my throat; and to the dust of death you led me.
PSA 22:16 For many dogs encircled me; the gathering of the ones acting wicked compass me. They dug into my hands and my feet.
PSA 22:17 They counted out all my bones, and they contemplated and looked upon me.
PSA 22:18 They divided my garments into parts to themselves, and over my clothes they cast a lot.
PSA 22:19 But you, O LORD, your help should not be far from me; take heed to my assistance!
PSA 22:20 Rescue my soul from the broadsword, and my only child from the hand of the dog!
PSA 22:21 Deliver me from the mouth of the lion, and from the horns of the unicorns of my humiliation!
PSA 22:22 I shall describe your name to my brothers; in the midst of the assembly I will praise you.
PSA 22:23 O ones fearing the LORD, praise him! All together, O seed of Jacob, glorify him! Fear indeed of him all together, O seed of Israel!
PSA 22:24 For he did not treat with contempt, nor loath the supplication of the poor, nor turned his face from me; and in my crying out to him he heard me.
PSA 22:25 My high praise is about you. In the great assembly I shall confess to you. My vows I shall render in the presence of the ones fearing him.
PSA 22:26 The needy shall eat and shall be filled up, and the ones seeking him shall praise the LORD; their hearts shall live into the eon of the eon.
PSA 22:27 All the ones at the ends of the earth shall remember and shall turn to the LORD; and all the families of the nations shall do obeisance before him.
PSA 22:28 For of the LORD is the kingdom; and he is master of the nations.
PSA 22:29 All the hearty of the earth ate and did obeisance; all the ones going down into the earth fell down before him. And my soul lives for him.
PSA 22:30 And my seed shall serve to him. The generation coming shall be announced to the LORD.
PSA 22:31 And they shall announce his righteousness to a people being born whom the LORD made.
PSA 23:1 A psalm to David. The LORD tends me, and not one thing lacks for me.
PSA 23:2 In the place of tender shoots, there he encamped me. At the water of rest, he nourished me.
PSA 23:3 He returned my life; he guided me upon roads of righteousness because of his name.
PSA 23:4 For if even I should go in the midst of the shadow of death, I shall not be afraid of evils, for you are with me; your rod and your staff they comfort me.
PSA 23:5 You prepared before me a table right opposite the ones afflicting me. You anointed my head with oil, and your cup is intoxicating me as most excellent.
PSA 23:6 And your mercy pursues me all the days of my life; and my dwelling is in the house of the LORD for duration of days.
PSA 24:1 A psalm to David of the one of the Sabbaths. Of the LORD is the earth, and the fullness of it; the inhabitable world, and all the ones dwelling in it.
PSA 24:2 He founded it upon seas; and upon rivers he prepared it.
PSA 24:3 Who shall ascend into the mountain of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy place?
PSA 24:4 Innocent hands and a pure heart who did not take hold upon vain things for his soul, and swore not by an oath with treachery against his neighbor -
PSA 24:5 this one shall receive a blessing by the LORD, and charity from God his deliverer.
PSA 24:6 This is the generation seeking the LORD, seeking the face of the God of Jacob.
PSA 24:7 Let your rulers lift the gates, and let the eternal gates be lifted up! and the king of glory shall enter.
PSA 24:8 Who is this king of glory? The LORD fortified and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle.
PSA 24:9 Let your rulers lift the gates! and let the eternal gates be lifted up! and the king of glory shall enter.
PSA 24:10 Who is this king of glory? The LORD of the forces, he is the king of glory.
PSA 25:1 A psalm to David. To you, O LORD, I lifted up my soul.
PSA 25:2 My God, upon you I have yielded. May I not be disgraced into the eon, nor let my enemies ridicule me!
PSA 25:3 For even all the ones remaining with you in no way shall be disgraced. Let the ones acting lawlessly without cause be ashamed!
PSA 25:4 Your ways, O LORD, make known to me, and teach me your paths!
PSA 25:5 Guide me with your truth, and teach me that you are God my deliverer! and I waited on you all the day.
PSA 25:6 Remember your compassions, O LORD, and your mercies! for they are from the eon.
PSA 25:7 Do not remember the sins of my youth and my ignorance! According to your mercy mention me to yourself, because of your graciousness, O LORD!
PSA 25:8 Gracious and upright is the LORD; because of this he shall establish law for ones sinning in the way.
PSA 25:9 He shall guide the gentle in judgment; he shall teach the gentle his ways.
PSA 25:10 All the ways of the LORD are mercy and truth to the ones seeking his covenant and his testimonies.
PSA 25:11 Because of your name, O LORD, atone my sin, for it is great!
PSA 25:12 Who is the man fearing the LORD? He shall establish law to him in the way in which he took up.
PSA 25:13 His soul shall be lodged in good things, and his seed shall inherit the earth.
PSA 25:14 The LORD is a fortification of the ones fearing him; and his covenant he manifested to them.
PSA 25:15 My eyes are always towards the LORD, for he shall pull out my feet from the snare.
PSA 25:16 Look upon me, and have mercy on me! for I am an only child and poor.
PSA 25:17 The afflictions of my heart were multiplied; lead me from out of my necessities!
PSA 25:18 Behold my humiliation and my toil, and forgive all my sins!
PSA 25:19 Behold my enemies! for they were multiplied, and they detested me with unjust hatred.
PSA 25:20 Guard my soul, and rescue me! May I not be disgraced, for I hoped upon you.
PSA 25:21 The guileless and the upright cleave to me; for I remained with you, O LORD.
PSA 25:22 Ransom, O God, Israel from all his afflictions!
PSA 26:1 A psalm to David. Judge me, O LORD! For I went in my innocence, and hoping upon the LORD; in no way should I weaken.
PSA 26:2 Try me, O LORD, and test me! set on fire my kidneys and my heart!
PSA 26:3 For your mercy is before my eyes, and I was well-pleased in your truth.
PSA 26:4 I sat not with the sanhedrin council. of folly; and with ones acting unlawfully in no way shall I enter.
PSA 26:5 I detested the assembly of ones doing wickedness; and with impious ones in no way shall I sit.
PSA 26:6 I shall wash my hands in innocent things; and I shall encircle your altar, O LORD,
PSA 26:7 to hear my voice of praise of you, and to describe all your wonders.
PSA 26:8 O LORD, I loved the beauty of your house, and the place of the tent of your glory.
PSA 26:9 You should not destroy together my soul with impious ones, nor my life with the men of blood,
PSA 26:10 in whose hands are lawless deeds, and their right hand filled of bribes.
PSA 26:11 But I was gone in my innocence. Ransom me, and show mercy on me!
PSA 26:12 My foot stands in straightness. In the assemblies I shall bless you, O LORD.
PSA 27:1 A psalm to David; before his anointing. The LORD is my illumination and my deliverer; in whom shall I fear? The LORD is the defender of my life; from whom shall I be timid?
PSA 27:2 In the approaching against me by the ones inflicting evil to devour my flesh, the ones afflicting me, and my enemies, they weakened and fell.
PSA 27:3 If a camp should deploy against me, my heart shall not fear. If war should rise up against me, in this I will be hopeful.
PSA 27:4 One thing I asked of the LORD, this I shall seek - for me to dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life; for me to view the delightfulness of the LORD, and to visit his holy temple.
PSA 27:5 For he hides me in his tent. In a day of my evils he sheltered me in concealment of his tent; in a rock he raised me up high.
PSA 27:6 And now, behold, he raised up high my head over my enemies. I encircled and sacrificed in his tent a sacrifice of praise and of a shout. I shall sing and strum to the LORD.
PSA 27:7 Hear, O LORD, my voice which I cried out! Show mercy on me, and hear me!
PSA 27:8 To you my heart said, I seek the LORD, I sought after you with my face. Your face, O LORD, I shall seek.
PSA 27:9 You should not turn your face from me, and you should not turn aside in anger from your servant. Become my helper! You should not curse me to be far away, and you should not abandon me; and do not overlook me, O God my deliverer!
PSA 27:10 For my father and my mother abandoned me, but the LORD took me to himself.
PSA 27:11 Establish the law for me, O LORD, in your way! And guide me in the straight road, because of my enemies!
PSA 27:12 You should not deliver me into the souls of ones afflicting me! For unjust witnesses rose up against me; for unjustness lied to herself.
PSA 27:13 I trust to behold the good things of the LORD in the land of the living.
PSA 27:14 Wait on the LORD! Be manly and fortify your heart, and wait on the LORD!
PSA 28:1 A psalm to David. To you, O LORD, I shall cry out. My God, you should not remain silent from me; lest at any time you should remain silent, and I shall be likened to the ones going down into the pit!
PSA 28:2 Hear, O LORD, the voice of my supplication in my beseeching to you, in my lifting my hands towards your holy temple!
PSA 28:3 You should not draw me together with sinners, and you should not destroy me together with ones working injustice; of the ones speaking peace with their neighbors, but evils are in their hearts!
PSA 28:4 Give to them, O LORD, according to their works, and according to the wickedness of their practices! Give to them according to the works of their hands! Render their recompense unto them!
PSA 28:5 For they perceived not unto the works of the LORD, even unto the works of his hands. You shall demolish them, and in no way should you build them.
PSA 28:6 Blessed be the LORD, for he heard the voice of my supplication.
PSA 28:7 The LORD is my helper and my defender; upon him my heart hoped, and I was helped; and my flesh flourished again; and by my will I will make acknowledgment to him.
PSA 28:8 The LORD is the fortification of his people, and he is the defender of the deliverances of his anointed one.
PSA 28:9 Deliver your people, and bless your inheritance; and tend them, and lift them up unto the eon!
PSA 29:1 A psalm to David; for the holiday recess of the tent. Bring to the LORD, O sons of God! Bring to the LORD offspring of rams! Bring to the LORD glory and honor!
PSA 29:2 Bring to the LORD glory to his name! Do obeisance to the LORD in his holy courtyard!
PSA 29:3 The voice of the LORD is upon the waters. The God of glory thunders. The LORD is upon many waters.
PSA 29:4 The voice of the LORD is in strength. The voice of the LORD is in majesty.
PSA 29:5 The voice of the LORD breaking cedars; even the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon;
PSA 29:6 and he shall thin them out as the calf of Lebanon; even the one being loved as a son of unicorns.
PSA 29:7 The voice of the LORD cutting through a flame of fire.
PSA 29:8 The voice of the LORD shaking the wilderness; and the LORD shall shake the wilderness of Kadesh.
PSA 29:9 The voice of the LORD fashioning the hinds; and he shall uncover the groves; and in his temple all who say, Glory.
PSA 29:10 The LORD shall settle the flood; and the LORD will sit a king into the eon.
PSA 29:11 The LORD shall give strength to his people. The LORD shall bless his people with peace.
PSA 30:1 A psalm of an ode of the dedication of the house of David. I will exalt you, O LORD; for you uplifted me, and my enemies did not make glad over me.
PSA 30:2 O LORD my God, I cried out to you, and I shall heal of my condition.
PSA 30:3 O LORD, you led my soul from out of Hades; you delivered me from the ones going down into the pit.
PSA 30:4 Let his sacred ones strum to the LORD, and make acknowledgment to the remembrance of his holiness!
PSA 30:5 For wrath is in his rage, but life is in his will. Weeping shall lodge the evening, but in the morning, exultation.
PSA 30:6 And I said in my prosperity, In no way shall I be shaken into the eon.
PSA 30:7 O LORD, in your will you furnished power to my beauty; but you turned your face, and I became disturbed.
PSA 30:8 To you, O LORD, I cry out; and to my God I shall beseech.
PSA 30:9 What benefit is there in my blood, in my going down into corruption? Shall the dust acknowledge you? or shall it announce your truth?
PSA 30:10 The LORD heard, and showed mercy on me. The LORD became my helper.
PSA 30:11 The beating of my breast turned into joy for me. You tore up my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness.
PSA 30:12 O how that my glory should strum to you, and in no way should I be vexed, O LORD my God. Into the eon I shall acknowledge you.
PSA 31:1 To the director; a psalm to David; a change of state. Upon you, O LORD, I hoped. May I not be disgraced into the eon. In your righteousness rescue me, and take me out!
PSA 31:2 Lean your ear to me! Hasten to take me out! Become to me as a defending God, and for a house of refuge to deliver me!
PSA 31:3 For you are my fortification and my refuge; and because of your name you shall guide me, and nourish me.
PSA 31:4 You shall lead me from out of the snare which these hid for me; for you are my defender, O LORD.
PSA 31:5 Into your hands I shall place my spirit. You ransomed me, O LORD God of truth.
PSA 31:6 You detested the ones guarding ineffectual follies. But I hoped upon the LORD.
PSA 31:7 I will exult and be glad over your mercy; for you looked upon my humiliation; you delivered my soul from the wants of necessities;
PSA 31:8 and you did not close me up by hands of enemies. You set my feet in a broad space.
PSA 31:9 Show mercy on me, O LORD, for I am afflicted! My eye my soul and my belly are disturbed in rage.
PSA 31:10 For my life failed in grief, and my years in moanings. My strength weakened in poorness, and my bones are disturbed.
PSA 31:11 By all my enemies I became a scorn, even to my neighbors exceedingly, and a fear to my acquaintances. The ones viewing me outside fled from me.
PSA 31:12 I was forgotten as one dead from the heart. I am become as a vessel being destroyed.
PSA 31:13 For I heard the fault of many sojourning round about. In their gathering together against me, they consulted to take my soul.
PSA 31:14 But I hoped upon you O LORD. I said, You are my God.
PSA 31:15 My lots are in your hands. Rescue me from the hand of my enemies, and from the ones pursuing me!
PSA 31:16 Let your face appear unto your servant! Deliver me in your mercy!
PSA 31:17 O LORD, may I not be disgraced, for I called upon you. May the impious ones be ashamed, and led down into Hades.
PSA 31:18 Let the lips of the deceitful become speechless - the ones speaking against the just one in lawlessness with pride and contempt!
PSA 31:19 How abundant is the multitude of your graciousness, O LORD, of which you hid to the ones fearing you. You brought it to completion to the ones hoping upon you before the sons of men.
PSA 31:20 You shall hide them in the concealment of your face from the disturbance of men. You shall shelter them in a tent from the dispute of tongues.
PSA 31:21 Blessed be the LORD, for his mercy caused wonders in the city encompassed about.
PSA 31:22 But I said in my change of state, I am thrown away from in front of your eyes. On account of this you heard of the voice of my supplication in my crying out to you.
PSA 31:23 Let all his sacred ones love the LORD! For the LORD requires truth, and recompenses extremely to the ones having pride.
PSA 31:24 Let all the ones hoping upon the LORD be manly and be fortified in your heart!
PSA 32:1 A psalm to David; for understanding. Blessed be one whose lawless deeds were forgiven, and whose sins were covered over.
PSA 32:2 Blessed be the man to whom in no way the LORD should impute sin, nor is treachery in his mouth.
PSA 32:3 For I kept quiet; my bones were grown old from my crying out the entire day.
PSA 32:4 For day and night your hand presses upon me. I was turned to misery by the thorn sticking me.
PSA 32:5 My lawlessness I made known, and my sin I did not cover. I said, I will declare openly against myself my lawlessness to the LORD; and you forgave the impiety of my heart. PAUSE.
PSA 32:6 For this every sacred one shall pray to you in a fit time. Only in a flood of waters many shall not approach to him.
PSA 32:7 You are my refuge from affliction encompassing me; my leap for joy to ransom me from the ones encircling me. PAUSE.
PSA 32:8 I will bring understanding to you, and I will instruct you in this way in which you shall go. I will stay my eyes upon you.
PSA 32:9 Do not become as a horse and mule in which there is not an understanding, to squeeze their jaws by muzzle and bridle of the ones not approaching to you!
PSA 32:10 Many are the whips for the sinner; but mercy shall encircle the one hoping upon the LORD.
PSA 32:11 Be glad upon the LORD, and exult, O just ones! And let all the ones straight in the heart boast!
PSA 33:1 A psalm to David. Exult, O just ones, in the LORD! To the upright praise is becoming.
PSA 33:2 Make acknowledgment to the LORD with a harp! With a ten-stringed psaltery strum to him!
PSA 33:3 Sing to him a new song! Strum well to him with a shout!
PSA 33:4 For the word of the LORD is upright; and all his works are in trust.
PSA 33:5 The LORD loves charity and equity. The earth is full of the mercy of the LORD.
PSA 33:6 By the word of the LORD the heavens were solidified; and by the breath of his mouth all their force;
PSA 33:7 bringing together as in a leather water bag the waters of the sea; putting in treasuries of the deeps.
PSA 33:8 Fear the LORD all the earth! And because of him let all the ones dwelling the inhabitable world be shaken!
PSA 33:9 For he spoke, and they came to pass; he gave charge, and they were created.
PSA 33:10 The LORD effaces plans of nations, and annuls devices of peoples, and annuls plans of rulers.
PSA 33:11 But the counsel of the LORD abides into the eon; the devices of his heart from generation and generation.
PSA 33:12 Blessed is the nation of which the LORD is its God; a people whom he chose for his own inheritance.
PSA 33:13 From out of heaven the LORD looks; he beholds all the sons of men.
PSA 33:14 From his prepared home he looked upon all the ones dwelling the earth.
PSA 33:15 He is the one shaping their hearts alone; the one perceiving in all their works.
PSA 33:16 A king is not delivered because of much force; and a giant shall not be delivered by the magnitude of his strength.
PSA 33:17 A horse is a false hope for deliverance; and in the magnitude of its power one shall not be delivered.
PSA 33:18 Behold, the eyes of the LORD are upon the ones fearing him; the ones hoping upon his mercy;
PSA 33:19 to rescue their souls from death, and to nourish them during famine.
PSA 33:20 And our soul waits on the LORD; for he is our helper and defender.
PSA 33:21 For in him our heart shall be glad, and in his holy name we hope.
PSA 33:22 May your mercy come, O LORD, upon us, just as we hoped upon you.
PSA 34:1 A psalm to David, when he changed his countenance before Abimelech; and he loosened him, and he went forth. I will bless the LORD at all time; always his praise is in my mouth.
PSA 34:2 My soul shall applaud in the LORD. Let the gentle hear and be glad!
PSA 34:3 Magnify the LORD with me! for we should raise up high his name together.
PSA 34:4 I sought after the LORD, and he heeded me, and out of all my afflictions he rescued me.
PSA 34:5 Come forward to him, and be enlightened! and your faces in no way shall be disgraced.
PSA 34:6 This poor man cried out, and the LORD heard him; and from out of all his afflictions he delivered him.
PSA 34:7 The angel of the LORD will encamp round about the ones fearing him, and will rescue them.
PSA 34:8 Taste and see that the LORD is gracious! Blessed is the man who hopes upon him.
PSA 34:9 Let all his holy ones fear the LORD! For there is not a deficiency to the ones fearing him.
PSA 34:10 The rich became poor, and they hunger; but the ones seeking after the LORD shall not lack any good thing.
PSA 34:11 Come children, hear me! I will teach you a fear of the LORD.
PSA 34:12 Who is the man wanting life, loving to behold good days?
PSA 34:13 Cease your tongue from evil, and your lips to not speak treachery!
PSA 34:14 Turn aside from the evil, and do good! Seek peace, and pursue it!
PSA 34:15 The eyes of the LORD are upon just ones, and his ears are unto their supplication.
PSA 34:16 But the face of the LORD is against the ones committing evils, to utterly destroy their memorial from the earth.
PSA 34:17 The just ones cried out, and the LORD heard them, and from out of all their afflictions rescued them.
PSA 34:18 The LORD is near to the ones being broken in heart; and the humble in spirit he shall deliver.
PSA 34:19 Many are the afflictions of the just ones; and from out of all of them the LORD shall rescue them.
PSA 34:20 The LORD guards all their bones; not one of them shall be broken.
PSA 34:21 The death of sinners is a sorry state; and the ones detesting the just one shall offend.
PSA 34:22 The LORD shall ransom the souls of his servants; and in no way shall all the ones hoping upon him offend.
PSA 35:1 A psalm to David. Adjucate, O LORD, the ones wronging me! Wage war against the ones waging war against me!
PSA 35:2 Take hold of weapon and shield, and rise up to help me!
PSA 35:3 Discharge the broadsword, and close up right opposite the ones pursuing me! Say to my soul, I am your deliverance!
PSA 35:4 Let the ones seeking my soul be ashamed and feel remorse! Let them be turned to the rear, and let the ones considering evils against me be disgraced!
PSA 35:5 Let them become as dust according to the face of the wind, and an angel of the LORD squeezing them!
PSA 35:6 Let their way become darkness and slippery, and an angel of the LORD pursuing them!
PSA 35:7 For without cause they hid their snare of corruption against me; in folly they berate my soul.
PSA 35:8 Let there come to him a snare which he knows not! And the snare of the hunt which he hid, let it seize him! and in the same snare he shall fall in it.
PSA 35:9 But my soul shall exult over the LORD; it shall be made happy over his deliverance.
PSA 35:10 All my bones shall say, O LORD, O LORD, who is likened to you? rescuing the poor from the hand of the one more solid than he, and the poor and needy one from the ones tearing him in pieces.
PSA 35:11 Rising up against me are unjust witnesses asking me things which I knew not.
PSA 35:12 They recompensed to me evil for good, and childlessness to my soul.
PSA 35:13 But I, in their troubling me, put on sackcloth. And I humbled my soul in fasting; and my prayer shall be returned unto my bosom.
PSA 35:14 As a neighbor, as to our brother, so they were well-pleasing. As mourning and looking downcast so I humbled myself.
PSA 35:15 And against me they were glad, and they gathered together; they gathered together whips against me, and I knew not; they were cut asunder, and were not vexed.
PSA 35:16 They tested me; they derided me in sneering; they gnashed against me with their teeth.
PSA 35:17 O LORD, when will you scrutinize? Restore my soul from their evil actions -- my only child from lions!
PSA 35:18 I shall make acknowledgment to you in the vast assembly; with grievous people I shall praise you.
PSA 35:19 May the ones hating me unjustly not rejoice against me; even the ones detesting me without a charge, and shunning their eyes.
PSA 35:20 For to me then they spoke peaceable; but in anger they devised treachery.
PSA 35:21 And they widened their mouth against me. They said, Well done, well done, our eyes saw.
PSA 35:22 You beheld, O LORD. You should not remain silent. O LORD, you should not separate from me.
PSA 35:23 Awake, O LORD, and take heed to my case, O my God, and to my cause O my LORD!
PSA 35:24 Judge me, O LORD, according to your righteousness, O LORD my God; and let them not rejoice against me!
PSA 35:25 May they not say in their heart, Well done, well done to our soul. Nor may they say, We swallowed him down.
PSA 35:26 May they be ashamed, and may the ones rejoicing at my hurts feel remorse together. Let the ones speaking great words against me be clothed in shame and remorse!
PSA 35:27 Exult and be glad, O ones wanting righteousness for me! And let say always, The LORD be magnified, by the ones wanting the peace of his servant!
PSA 35:28 And my tongue shall meditate upon your righteousness; all the day of your high praise.
PSA 36:1 To the director, to the servant of the LORD, to David. The lawbreaker speaks in himself so as to sin; there is not a fear of God before his eyes.
PSA 36:2 For he acted treacherously before him, to find out his lawlessness and to detest.
PSA 36:3 The sayings of his mouth are lawlessness and treachery; he wanted not to perceive to do good.
PSA 36:4 He reasons lawlessness upon his bed; he renders to every way not good; and evil he did not loath.
PSA 36:5 O LORD, your mercy is in the heaven, and your truth unto the clouds.
PSA 36:6 Your righteousness is as the mountains of God; your judgments a vast abyss. You shall preserve men and cattle, O LORD.
PSA 36:7 How you multiplied your mercy, O God. And the sons of men shall hope in the protection of your wings.
PSA 36:8 They shall be intoxicated from the fatness of your house; and you shall water them of the rushing stream of your delicacy.
PSA 36:9 For from you is the spring of life. In your light we shall see light.
PSA 36:10 Extend your mercy to the ones knowing you, and your righteousness to the ones straight in the heart!
PSA 36:11 Let not the foot of pride come against me, nor the hand of the sinner to shake me!
PSA 36:12 There they fell - all the ones working lawlessness. They were pushed out, and in no way shall they be able to stand.
PSA 37:1 A psalm to David. Be not provoked to jealousy with ones acting wickedly, nor be jealous of the ones doing lawlessness!
PSA 37:2 For they shall be dried up quickly as grass, and as vegetation of tender shoots they shall quickly fall away.
PSA 37:3 Hope upon the LORD, and execute graciousness! And encamp the land, and you shall be tended by its riches!
PSA 37:4 Revel in the LORD, that he should give to you the requests of your heart!
PSA 37:5 Reveal to the LORD your way; and hope upon him, and he will act!
PSA 37:6 And he shall bring forth your righteousness as light, and your practice as at midday.
PSA 37:7 Submit to the LORD, and entreat him! Be not provoked to jealousy in the prospering by a man doing unlawfulness in his way!
PSA 37:8 Cease from anger, and abandon rage! Be not provoked to jealousy so as to do wicked!
PSA 37:9 For the ones doing wicked shall be utterly destroyed; but the ones waiting on the LORD, they shall inherit the land.
PSA 37:10 And yet in a short time, and in no way shall a sinner exist; and you shall seek his place, and in no way shall you find it.
PSA 37:11 But the gentle shall inherit the earth; and they shall revel over an abundance of peace.
PSA 37:12 The sinner shall closely watch the just one, and shall gnash his teeth over him.
PSA 37:13 But the LORD shall laugh out loud at him; for he foresees that his day will come.
PSA 37:14 The sinners unsheathed the broadsword; they stretched tight their bow to throw down the poor and needy, and to slay the straight in the heart.
PSA 37:15 May their broadsword enter into their own hearts, and may their bows be broken.
PSA 37:16 Better is a little to the just one, than many riches of sinners.
PSA 37:17 For the arms of sinners shall be broken; but the LORD supports the just ones.
PSA 37:18 The LORD knows the ways of the unblemished, and their inheritance shall be into the eon.
PSA 37:19 They will not be disgraced in a bad time; and in days of hunger they shall be filled.
PSA 37:20 For the sinners shall be destroyed, and the enemies of the LORD at the same time in their being glorified and exalted -- vanished as smoke vanishing.
PSA 37:21 The sinner borrows, and does not pay back; but the just one pities, and gives.
PSA 37:22 For the ones blessing him shall inherit land; but the ones cursing him shall be utterly destroyed.
PSA 37:23 The footsteps of a man are straightened out by the LORD; and he shall want his way exceedingly.
PSA 37:24 Whenever he shall fall he will not break down; for the LORD gives support to his hand.
PSA 37:25 I was younger - for even I grew old; and I beheld not a just one being abandoned, nor his seed seeking bread loaves.
PSA 37:26 The just one shows mercy and lends the entire day, and his seed will be for a blessing.
PSA 37:27 Turn aside from evil, and do good; and encamp into the eon of the eon!
PSA 37:28 For the LORD loves equity, and shall not abandon his sacred ones; into the eon they shall be guarded. But lawless ones shall be driven out, and the seed of the impious ones shall be utterly destroyed.
PSA 37:29 But the just ones shall inherit the earth, and encamp into the eon of the eon upon her.
PSA 37:30 The mouth of the just one shall meditate upon wisdom, and his tongue shall speak equity.
PSA 37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; and his footsteps shall not be tripped up.
PSA 37:32 The sinner contemplates the just one, and seeks to kill him.
PSA 37:33 But the LORD - in no way may he abandon him into his hands, nor in no way should he condemn him whenever he should judge him.
PSA 37:34 Wait on the LORD, and guard his way! and he shall exalt you to inherit the land, in the one you will see sinners being utterly destroyed.
PSA 37:35 I beheld the impious one being greatly exalted, and being lifted up as the cedars of Lebanon.
PSA 37:36 And I went by, and behold, he was not. And I sought him, and his place was not found.
PSA 37:37 Guard innocence, and know straightness! For there is a leftover for the peaceable man.
PSA 37:38 But the lawbreakers shall be utterly destroyed together; the leftovers of the impious ones shall be utterly destroyed.
PSA 37:39 But deliverance of the just ones is by the LORD, and he is their defender in time of affliction.
PSA 37:40 And the LORD shall help them, and shall rescue them, and shall take them away from sinners, and shall deliver them; for they hoped upon him.
PSA 38:1 A psalm to David; for remembrance concerning the Sabbath. O LORD, let not your rage reprove me, nor in your anger correct me!
PSA 38:2 For your arrows were stuck in me, and your hand stayed upon me.
PSA 38:3 There is not a healing in my flesh from the face of your anger; there is not peace in my bones from the face of my sins.
PSA 38:4 For my lawless deeds are elevated above my head; as a heavy load they were oppressed upon me.
PSA 38:5 My stripes give out an odor and fester from the face of my folly.
PSA 38:6 I was in misery, and bent down until the end. All the day I went looking downcast.
PSA 38:7 For my flanks were filled of mockeries, and there is not a healing in my flesh.
PSA 38:8 I was afflicted with evil and humbled - even unto exceedingly. I roared from the moaning of my heart.
PSA 38:9 O LORD, before you is all my desire; and my moaning from you can not be concealed.
PSA 38:10 My heart is disturbed; my strength abandoned me; even the light of my eyes, and it is not with me.
PSA 38:11 My friends and my neighbors right opposite me approached and stood; and the ones nearest to me stood from afar off.
PSA 38:12 And the ones seeking my life expelled me; and the ones seeking bad things for me spoke follies, and meditated on deceits the entire day.
PSA 38:13 But I, as a deaf-mute, did not hear; and was as one speechless not opening his mouth.
PSA 38:14 And I became as a man not hearing, and not having rebukes in his mouth.
PSA 38:15 For upon you, O LORD, I hoped. You will hear, O LORD my God.
PSA 38:16 For I spoke, lest at any time my enemies rejoice over me; and at the shaking of my feet they spoke great words against me.
PSA 38:17 For I am prepared for whips; and my suffering is always before me.
PSA 38:18 For my lawlessness I will announce; and I will be anxious concerning my sin.
PSA 38:19 But my enemies live, and are fortified over me; and the ones detesting me unjustly multiply.
PSA 38:20 The ones recompensing to me bad for good slandered me when they pursued their righteousness.
PSA 38:21 You should not abandon me, O LORD my God; you should not separate from me.
PSA 38:22 Take heed for my help, O LORD of my deliverance!
PSA 39:1 To the director; to Jeduthun; an ode to David. I said, I shall guard my ways for me to not sin with my tongue. I put a guard for my mouth while the sinner stood before me.
PSA 39:2 I was mute and humbled and quiet of good words; and my pain was renewed.
PSA 39:3 My heart heated within me, and in my meditation a fire would burn away; then I spoke with my tongue.
PSA 39:4 Make known to me, O LORD, my limit, and the number of my days; what it is that I should know what I lack!
PSA 39:5 Behold, you established a palm for my days; and my essence is as nothing before you. Furthermore, for every man living all things are folly.
PSA 39:6 However, a man travels with an image, except, he is disturbed in folly. He treasures up, but does not know why he shall gather them.
PSA 39:7 And now, what of my endurance - is it not the LORD? Even my support is from you.
PSA 39:8 From all my lawless deeds rescue me! You gave me for scorn to the foolish one.
PSA 39:9 I was made mute, and I did not open my mouth, for you acted.
PSA 39:10 Abstain your whips from me; from the strength of your hand I failed.
PSA 39:11 With rebukes for lawlessness you corrected man, and his life wastes away as a spider's; besides - every man is folly. PAUSE.
PSA 39:12 Hear my prayer, O LORD, and my supplication! Give ear to my tears! Be not silent! For I am a sojourner with you, and an immigrant, as all my fathers.
PSA 39:13 Spare me! that I shall refresh before my going forth, and should no longer in any way exist.
PSA 40:1 To the director; a psalm to David. Enduring, I waited on the LORD, and he took heed to me, and heard my supplication.
PSA 40:2 And he led me from out of the pit of misery, and from the mud of slime, and stood my feet upon the rock, and straightened out my footsteps.
PSA 40:3 And he put into my mouth a new song, a hymn to our God. Many shall see, and shall fear, and shall hope upon the LORD.
PSA 40:4 Blessed is the man of which his hope is the name of the LORD, and he did not look to follies and false frenzies.
PSA 40:5 Many things you did yourself, O LORD my God, concerning your wonders, and concerning your devices. There is not any that shall be likened to you. I reported and spoke - they were multiplied above number.
PSA 40:6 A sacrifice and offering you wanted not, but a body you readied to me; whole burnt offerings and a sacrifice for sin you did not seek.
PSA 40:7 Then I said, Behold, I come (in the chapter of the scroll it is written concerning me,)
PSA 40:8 to do your will, O my God I wanted; and your law is in the midst of my belly.
PSA 40:9 I announced good news - righteousness in the great assembly. Behold, in no way should I restrain my lips, O LORD - you know.
PSA 40:10 My righteousness I hid not in my heart; your truth and your deliverance I told; I hid not your mercy and your truth from the gathering of many.
PSA 40:11 But you, O LORD, your compassions should not be far from me. Your mercy and your truth, may they always take hold of me.
PSA 40:12 For bad things compass me which there is not a number. My lawless deeds overtook me, and I was not able to see; they were multiplied over the hairs of my head; and my heart abandoned me.
PSA 40:13 Think well, O LORD, to rescue me! O LORD, take heed to help me!
PSA 40:14 May the ones seeking my life to lift it away be disgraced and feel shame together. May they be turned back to the rear, and may the ones wanting bad things for me feel shame.
PSA 40:15 Let them carry immediately their shame - the ones saying to me, Well done. well done.
PSA 40:16 All the ones seeking you exult and are glad over you, O LORD. And let the ones loving your deliverance always say let the LORD be magnified!
PSA 40:17 But I am poor and needy; but the LORD will be thoughtful of me. You are my helper and my defender, O my God, you should not delay.
PSA 41:1 To the director; a psalm to David. Blessed is the one taking notice upon the poor and needy; the LORD shall rescue him in the evil day.
PSA 41:2 May the LORD guard him, and enliven him, and bless him in the land; and may he not deliver him into the hands of his enemies.
PSA 41:3 Let the LORD give help to him upon the bed of his grief! You turned all of his bed in his illness.
PSA 41:4 I said, O LORD, show mercy on me! Heal my soul! For I sinned against you.
PSA 41:5 My enemies said bad things against me, saying, When shall he die, and his name perish?
PSA 41:6 And if he entered to see me, his heart spoke folly. He gathered lawlessness to himself; he went forth outside, and spoke in the same manner.
PSA 41:7 All my enemies whispered against me; against me they devised bad things for me.
PSA 41:8 They laid down against me an illegal matter, saying, Shall the one going to bed not proceed to rise up?
PSA 41:9 For also the man of my peace, upon whom I hoped, the one eating my bread loaves, magnified against me with trickery.
PSA 41:10 But you, O LORD, show mercy on me, and raise me up, and recompense to them!
PSA 41:11 By this I knew that you wanted me, that in no way should my enemy rejoice over me.
PSA 41:12 But because of my innocence, you assisted and firmed me up before you into the eon.
PSA 41:13 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, from the eon and into the eon. May it be, May it be.
PSA 42:1 To the director; for contemplation to the sons of Korah. In which manner the stag longs after the springs of the waters, so my soul longs after you, O God.
PSA 42:2 My soul thirsted for the mighty living God. When shall I come and appear in front of God?
PSA 42:3 My tears became bread to me day and night, in the saying to me each day, Where is your God?
PSA 42:4 These things I remembered, and my soul poured out upon me; for I shall go through to the place of the wonderful tent, unto the house of God, with a voice of exultation, and acknowledgment of the sound of the solemnizing a holiday.
PSA 42:5 Why are you dejected, O my soul? and why do you disturb me? Hope upon God! For I shall acknowledge to him the deliverance of my person.
PSA 42:6 O my God, to myself my soul was disturbed. On account of this I will remember you from out of the land of Jordan, and Hermons, from the small mountain.
PSA 42:7 The deep calls the deep at the sound of your torrents; all your crests and your waves went over me.
PSA 42:8 By day the LORD gives charge to his mercy, and at night his ode shall be with me - a prayer to the God of my life.
PSA 42:9 I will say to God, You are my shielder; why did you forget me? Why do I go looking downcast at the squeezing by the enemy?
PSA 42:10 In the breaking in pieces of my bones, the ones afflicting me berated me; while in their saying to me accordingly each day, Where is your God?
PSA 42:11 Why are you dejected, O my soul? and why do you disturb me? Hope upon God! For I shall acknowledge to him deliverance of my person, and my God.
PSA 43:1 A psalm to David. Judge for me, O God, and adjudicate my cause, from a nation which is not sacred! Rescue me from a man unjust and deceitful!
PSA 43:2 For you are the God of my fortification. Why did you thrust me away? And why do I go looking downcast during the squeezing by the enemy?
PSA 43:3 Send out your light and your truth! They guided me, and they led me to your holy mountain, and to your tents.
PSA 43:4 And I shall enter to the altar of God; to the God gladdening my youth. I will acknowledge to you with harp, O God, my God.
PSA 43:5 Why are you dejected, O my soul? and why disturb me? Hope upon God! For I shall make acknowledgment to him - the deliverance of my person, and my God.
PSA 44:1 To the director; to the sons of Korah; for contemplation. O God, we heard with our ears, and our fathers announced to us the work which you worked in their days, in ancient days.
PSA 44:2 How your hand utterly destroyed nations, and planted them. You afflicted peoples and cast them out.
PSA 44:3 For not by their broadsword they inherited the land, and their arm did not deliver them; but it was your right hand, and your arm, and the illumination of your countenance, for you thought well by them.
PSA 44:4 You are he, O my king and my God, the one giving charge to the deliverances of Jacob.
PSA 44:5 In you we will gore our enemies, and in your name we will treat with contempt the ones rising up against us.
PSA 44:6 For not upon my bow will I hope, and my broadsword will not deliver me.
PSA 44:7 For he delivered us from the ones afflicting us, and the ones detesting us he disgraced.
PSA 44:8 In God we will praise the entire day, and in your name we will make acknowledgment into the eon.
PSA 44:9 But now you thrusted away, and put us to shame; and you shall not go forth, O God, with our forces.
PSA 44:10 You turned us to the rear by our enemies; and the ones detesting us plundered for themselves.
PSA 44:11 You gave us as sheep for food; and among the nations you scattered us.
PSA 44:12 You rendered your people without a value, and there was not an abundance by their shout.
PSA 44:13 You put us for scorn to our neighbors, for a sneering and a taunting to the ones round about us.
PSA 44:14 You put us as a parable among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
PSA 44:15 My being made ashamed is in front of me the entire day, and the shame of my face covered me;
PSA 44:16 even from a voice of one berating and speaking improperly from in front of the enemy and the one banishing.
PSA 44:17 All these things came upon us; but we did not forget you, and we did not do wrong by your covenant.
PSA 44:18 And we did not leave our heart to the rear, nor turned aside our paths from your way.
PSA 44:19 For you humbled us in the place of affliction, and the shadow of death covered over us.
PSA 44:20 If we forgot the name of our God, and if we opened and spread out our hands to an alien god,
PSA 44:21 shall not God require these things? For he knows the secret things of the heart.
PSA 44:22 For because of you we are being put to death the entire day; we are considered as sheep for slaughter.
PSA 44:23 Awaken! Why do you sleep, O Lord? Rise up! and you should not thrust us away unto the end.
PSA 44:24 Why do you turn your face, and forget our poorness, and our affliction?
PSA 44:25 For our soul was humbled into the dust; our belly was cleaved to the earth.
PSA 44:26 Rise up, O LORD, help us and ransom us, because of your name!
PSA 45:1 To the director; for the changings; to the sons of Korah; for contemplation; an ode for the beloved. My heart discharged forth a good word. I speak of my works to the king. My tongue is a reed pen of a scribe writing fast.
PSA 45:2 More beautiful in beauty than the sons of men. Favor was poured out on your lips. On account of this God blessed you into the eon.
PSA 45:3 Gird your broadsword upon your thigh, O mighty one, in your beauty!
PSA 45:4 And in your fineness, even stretch tight your bow, and greatly prosper, and reign! Because of truth, and gentleness, and righteousness even shall your right hand guide you wonderfully.
PSA 45:5 Your arrows are being sharpened, O mighty one. Peoples shall fall underneath you in the heart of the enemies of the king.
PSA 45:6 Your throne, O God, is unto the eon of the eon. A rod of straightness is the rod of your kingdom.
PSA 45:7 You loved righteousness, and detested lawlessness. On account of this God your God anointed you with oil of exultation beyond your fellow partakers.
PSA 45:8 Myrrh, and balsam, and cassia of your garments from palaces of ivory,
PSA 45:9 from of which daughters of kings gladdened you in your honor. The queen stood at your right in having put around clothes interwoven with gold being embroidered.
PSA 45:10 Hear, O daughter, and behold! And lean your ear, and forget your people, and the house of your father!
PSA 45:11 Even the king desired your beauty; for he is your lord; and you shall do obeisance to him.
PSA 45:12 And the daughter of Tyre shall come with gifts. The rich of the people will implore your face.
PSA 45:13 All the glory of the daughter of the king within, with bordered fringes of gold,
PSA 45:14 being put around, being embroidered. The virgins shall be carried to the king after her; the ones near her shall be carried to you.
PSA 45:15 They shall be carried in gladness and exultation; they shall be led into the temple of the king.
PSA 45:16 In place of your fathers, your sons were born. You shall place them as rulers over all the earth.
PSA 45:17 I will make your name remembered in every generation, and generation. On account of this peoples will make acknowledgment to you into the eon, and into the eon of the eon.
PSA 46:1 To the director; for the sons of Korah; a psalm concerning the secrets. Our God is a refuge and power, a helper in afflictions, to the ones exceedingly having found us.
PSA 46:2 On account of this we shall not fear when the earth is disturbed, and mountains are transposed in the hearts of seas.
PSA 46:3 Their waters sounded and were disturbed; the mountains were disturbed by his force.
PSA 46:4 The rapid movements of the river gladdens the city of God. The highest sanctified his tent.
PSA 46:5 God is in the midst of her, and she shall not be shaken. God shall help her towards morning by morning.
PSA 46:6 Nations were disturbed; kingdoms leaned; the highest gave out his voice, the earth shook.
PSA 46:7 The LORD of the forces is with us; the God of Jacob is our shielder.
PSA 46:8 Come, and see the works of God; what miracles he made upon the earth!
PSA 46:9 Taking away wars in return unto the ends of the earth; He shall break the bow, and shall break in pieces the weapon; and the shields he shall incinerate with fire.
PSA 46:10 Relax, and know that I am God! I shall be raised up high in the nations, I shall be raised up high in the earth.
PSA 46:11 The LORD of the forces is with us; the God of Jacob is our shielder.
PSA 47:1 For the director; for the sons of Korah; a psalm. All the nations - clap hands! Shout to God with a voice of exultation!
PSA 47:2 For the LORD the highest is dreadful; a great king over all the earth.
PSA 47:3 He submitted peoples to us, and nations under our feet.
PSA 47:4 He chose to us the inheritance for us, the beauty of Jacob whom he loved.
PSA 47:5 God ascended in a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
PSA 47:6 Strum to our God! Strum! Strum to our king! Strum!
PSA 47:7 For the king of all the earth is God. Strum expertly!
PSA 47:8 God reigns over the nations. God sits upon his holy throne.
PSA 47:9 Rulers of peoples are brought together with the God of Abraham. For by God the strong ones of the earth were lifted up exceedingly.
PSA 48:1 A psalm; an ode to the sons of Korah; second of Sabbath. Great is the LORD, and exceedingly praiseworthy in the city of our God, in his holy mountain.
PSA 48:2 With good root, a leap for joy of all the earth, is mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king.
PSA 48:3 God is known in her palaces, whenever he should assist her.
PSA 48:4 For behold, the kings of the earth are being brought together; they went through together.
PSA 48:5 They in seeing thus wondered; they were disturbed; they were shaken.
PSA 48:6 Trembling took hold of them there - pangs as a woman giving birth.
PSA 48:7 By a violent wind you shall break the boats of Tarshish.
PSA 48:8 Just as we heard, so also we behold in the city of the LORD of the forces, in the city of our God. God founded her into the eon.
PSA 48:9 We undertook, O God, of your mercy in the midst of your people.
PSA 48:10 According to your name, O God, so also is the praise of you unto the ends of the earth. Your right hand is full of righteousness.
PSA 48:11 Be glad, mount Zion, and exult daughters of Judea! because of your judgments, O LORD.
PSA 48:12 Encircle Zion, and take hold of her! Describe concerning her towers!
PSA 48:13 Put your hearts for her force, and divide her palaces, so that you may describe to another generation!
PSA 48:14 For this is our God into the eon, and into the eon of the eon; he shall tend us into the eons.
PSA 49:1 To the director; to the sons of Korah; a psalm. Hear these things, all nations! Give ear, all dwelling in the inhabitable world -
PSA 49:2 both the earth-born, and the sons of men together, rich and needy!
PSA 49:3 My mouth speaks wisdom, and the meditation of my heart understanding.
PSA 49:4 I will lean my ear to a parable; I will open my riddle with a psaltery.
PSA 49:5 Why do I fear in the wicked day when lawlessness at my heel shall encircle me?
PSA 49:6 The ones yielding upon their power, even the ones boasting upon the multitude of their riches,
PSA 49:7 a brother does not ransom. Shall a man ransom? He shall not give to God an appeasement for himself;
PSA 49:8 even the value of the ransoming his soul, even if he labored into the eon;
PSA 49:9 even if he shall live till the end, that he should not see corruption.
PSA 49:10 Whenever he should behold wise ones dying, the foolish one and the mindless one shall perish together; and shall leave behind their riches to strangers.
PSA 49:11 And their tombs are their houses into the eon; their tents unto generation and generation. They call lands after their names.
PSA 49:12 And a man being in honor perceived not. He resembles the unthinking cattle, and is like them.
PSA 49:13 This their way is an obstacle to them; and after these things they take pleasure with their mouths.
PSA 49:14 They placed them as sheep in Hades; death tends them; and the upright shall dominate them in the morning; and their help shall grow old in Hades; they were banished from their glory.
PSA 49:15 Except God shall ransom my soul from out of the hand of Hades, whenever he should take me.
PSA 49:16 Do not fear whenever a man should be enriched, or whenever the glory of his house should be multiplied;
PSA 49:17 for he shall not take anything in his dying, nor will his glory go down with him!
PSA 49:18 For his soul shall be blessed in his life. He shall make acknowledgment to you whenever you should do good to him.
PSA 49:19 He shall enter unto the generation of his fathers; unto the eon he shall not see light.
PSA 49:20 And a man being in honor, and perceived not, resembles the unthinking cattle, and is like them.
PSA 50:1 A psalm to Asaph. The God of gods, the LORD spoke, and called the earth from the east sun unto its descent.
PSA 50:2 From out of Zion is the attractiveness of his beauty.
PSA 50:3 God visibly shall come, our God, and he will not remain silent. A fire before him shall burn; and round about him an exceeding gale.
PSA 50:4 He shall call on the heaven upward, and the earth, to separate his people.
PSA 50:5 Gathered to him are his sacred ones, the ones ordaining his covenant with a sacrifice.
PSA 50:6 And the heavens shall announce his righteousness; for God is judge.
PSA 50:7 Hear, O my people, and I will speak to you; O Israel, and I will testify to you! The God, I am your God.
PSA 50:8 I will not reprove you over your sacrifices; for your whole burnt offerings are always before me.
PSA 50:9 I will not take calves from your house, nor winter yearlings from your flocks.
PSA 50:10 For it is all mine - the wild beasts of the field, the cattle on the mountains, and oxen.
PSA 50:11 I know all the winged creatures of the heaven, and the beauty of the field is with me.
PSA 50:12 If I should hunger, in no way should I tell you, for the inhabitable world is mine, and the fullness of it.
PSA 50:13 Shall I eat meats of bulls or drink blood of he-goats?
PSA 50:14 Sacrifice to God a sacrifice of praise; and render to the highest your vows!
PSA 50:15 And call upon me in a day of affliction, and I shall rescue you, and you shall glorify me!
PSA 50:16 But to the sinner God said, Why do you describe my ordinances, and take up my covenant through your mouth?
PSA 50:17 For you detested instruction, and cast out my words to the rear.
PSA 50:18 Since you viewed a thief, you ran together with him; and you established your portion with the adulterer.
PSA 50:19 Your mouth abounded with evil, and your tongue twisted with deceits.
PSA 50:20 In sitting down, you spoke ill against your brother; even to place an obstacle against the son of your mother.
PSA 50:21 These things you did, and I kept quiet. You undertook lawlessness, for you thought I will be likened to you. I will reprove you, and I will stand your sins in front of your face.
PSA 50:22 Perceive indeed these things, O ones forgetting God!, lest at any time he should snatch you away, and in no way should there be one rescuing!
PSA 50:23 A sacrifice of praise shall glorify me, and there in the way I will show to him my deliverance.
PSA 51:1 To the director; a psalm to David, in Nathan the prophet entering to him, when he entered to Bathsheba the wife of Uriah. Show mercy on me, O God, according to your great mercy, and according to the multitude of your compassions! Wipe away my violation of the law!
PSA 51:2 Abundantly wash me from my lawlessness, and cleanse me from my sin!
PSA 51:3 For I know my lawlessness, and my sin is always before me.
PSA 51:4 Against you alone I sinned, and did the wicked thing before you; that you should be justified in your words, and should overcome in your judging.
PSA 51:5 For behold in lawless deeds I was conceived, and in sins my mother craved strange food for me.
PSA 51:6 For behold, you loved truth. You manifested to me the concealed things and the private things of your wisdom.
PSA 51:7 You shall sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; you shall wash me, and I shall be whitened above snow.
PSA 51:8 You shall cause me to hear exultation and gladness; the bones being humbled shall exult.
PSA 51:9 Turn your face from my sins, and wipe away all my lawlessnesses!
PSA 51:10 Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew an upright spirit in my insides!
PSA 51:11 Reel not your face from me, and do not take away in return the holy spirit from me!
PSA 51:12 Give back to me the exultation of your deliverance, and support me with your governing spirit!
PSA 51:13 I shall teach the lawless ones your ways; and the impious ones shall turn unto you.
PSA 51:14 Rescue me from blood guilt, O God, the God of my deliverance! My tongue shall exult over your righteousness.
PSA 51:15 O Lord, you shall open my lips, and my mouth shall announce your praise.
PSA 51:16 For if you wanted a sacrifice, I would have given; whole burnt offerings you do not think well of.
PSA 51:17 A sacrifice to God is a spirit being broken; God will not treat with contempt a heart being broken and humbled.
PSA 51:18 Do good, O LORD, by your benevolence to Zion; and let the walls of Jerusalem be built!
PSA 51:19 Then you will think well of a sacrifice of righteousness offering, and whole burnt offerings; then they shall offer calves upon your altar.
PSA 52:1 To the director; for contemplation; to David; in the coming of Doeg the Edomite, and announcing to Saul, and telling to him that David went to the house of Ahimelech. Why do you boast in evil, O mighty one, with lawlessness the entire day?
PSA 52:2 Your tongue considers injustice; as sharpening a razor you did treachery.
PSA 52:3 You loved evil over goodness; injustice over speaking righteousness.
PSA 52:4 You loved all the drowning words, O deceitful tongue.
PSA 52:5 On account of this, God shall demolish you unto the end, to pluck you out, and to migrate you from your tent, and your root from out of the land of the living.
PSA 52:6 The just ones shall see, and shall fear, and shall laugh at him. And they shall say,
PSA 52:7 Behold, the man who did not make God his helper, but raised hope upon the multitude of his riches, and was empowered by his folly.
PSA 52:8 But I am as a fruitful olive tree in the house of God. I hoped upon the mercy of God into the eon, and into the eon of the eon.
PSA 52:9 I will make acknowledgment to you into the eon, for you acted; and I will wait on your name; for you are gracious before your sacred ones.
PSA 53:1 To the director; a psalm for contemplation upon the harp; to David. A foolish one said in his heart, There is not God. They were corrupt and abhorrent in lawless deeds. There is not one doing good.
PSA 53:2 God from out of the heaven looks upon the sons of men to behold if there is one perceiving, or seeking after God.
PSA 53:3 All turned aside; together they were made useless; there is not one doing good, there is not even one.
PSA 53:4 Shall all the ones working lawlessness not know, the ones eating up my people for solid food of bread? They called not upon the LORD.
PSA 53:5 There they feared a fear, where there was not anything to fear. For God dispersed the bones of ones trying to please men. They were disgraced, for God treated them with contempt.
PSA 53:6 Who will appoint from out of Zion the deliverance of Israel? In God returning the captivity of his people, Jacob shall exult, and Israel shall be glad.
PSA 54:1 To the director; among the hymns of contemplation to David; in the coming of the Ziphites, and their saying to Saul, Behold is not David hidden with us? O God, by your name deliver me, and by your power judge me!
PSA 54:2 O God, listen to my prayer; give ear to the words of my mouth!
PSA 54:3 For strangers rose up against me, and strong men seek my life; and they did not set God before them.
PSA 54:4 For behold, God helps me; and the Lord is a shielder of my life.
PSA 54:5 He shall return the evils to my enemies. By your truth utterly destroy them!
PSA 54:6 Voluntarily I will sacrifice to you; I will make acknowledgment to your name, O LORD, for good.
PSA 54:7 For from out of all afflictions you rescued me; and among my enemies my eye looked upon its request.
PSA 55:1 To the director; among hymns of contemplation; to Asaph. Give ear to, O God, my prayer, for you should not overlook my supplication!
PSA 55:2 Take heed to me, and listen to me! I was fretted in my meditation, and was disturbed -
PSA 55:3 from the voice of an enemy, and from the affliction of the sinner; for they turned aside against me for lawlessness, and in anger they displayed anger against me.
PSA 55:4 My heart was disturbed in me; and dread of death fell upon me.
PSA 55:5 Fear and trembling came upon me, and darkness covered me.
PSA 55:6 And I said, Why shall he not give to me wings as a dove, and I shall spread out, and I shall rest?
PSA 55:7 Behold, I was far off being driven into exile, and was lodged in the wilderness.
PSA 55:8 I waited for - the God. the one delivering me from faint-heartedness and the gale.
PSA 55:9 Sink them, O Lord, and divide their tongues! For I saw lawlessness and dispute in the city.
PSA 55:10 Day and night it shall encircle her upon her walls; and lawlessness and misery will be in the midst of her;
PSA 55:11 and injustice, and usury and treachery ceased not from out of her squares.
PSA 55:12 For if an enemy berated me, I would have endured. And if the one detesting me spoke great words against me, I would have hidden from him.
PSA 55:13 But you, O man, are like-minded, a leader of mine, and my diviner,
PSA 55:14 who together you sweetened foods; in the house of God we went in concord.
PSA 55:15 And let death come upon them, and let them go down into Hades alive! For wickedness in their sojourn is in the midst of them.
PSA 55:16 I cried out to God, and the LORD listened to me.
PSA 55:17 Evening and morning and at midday I describe and report; and he shall listen to my voice.
PSA 55:18 He shall ransom my soul in peace from the ones approaching me; for among many they were with me.
PSA 55:19 God shall listen, and the one existing before the eons shall humble them. PAUSE. For there is not a bargaining with them, for they do not fear God.
PSA 55:20 He stretched out his hand in the recompensing; they profaned his covenant.
PSA 55:21 He divided them into parts from the anger of his face, and their hearts approached. His words were made tender above olive oil, yet they are arrows.
PSA 55:22 Cast upon the LORD your anxiety, and he will nourish you! He will not grant the just one for a tossing about into the eon.
PSA 55:23 But you, O God, shall lead them down into a well of corruption. Men of blood and deceit in no way shall live half their days. But I, O LORD, shall hope upon you.
PSA 56:1 To the director; for the people being far from the holy things; to David; for an inscription on a monument; when the Philistines held him in Gath. Show mercy on me, O God! For man trampled me. The entire day in waging war he afflicted me.
PSA 56:2 My enemies trampled me the entire day; for many are the ones waging war against me from the height.
PSA 56:3 I do not fear the day, and I shall hope upon you.
PSA 56:4 In God I will praise by my words, upon God I hoped. I shall not fear what flesh shall do to me.
PSA 56:5 The entire day they abhorred my words; all their thoughts are against me for bad.
PSA 56:6 They will sojourn and hide; they will guard my heel, just as they wait for my life.
PSA 56:7 For by no means shall you deliver them; you will lead down peoples in anger.
PSA 56:8 O God, my life I declared to you; you put my tears before you, as even in your promise.
PSA 56:9 My enemies shall turn to the rear in which ever day I should call upon you. Behold, I knew that you are my God.
PSA 56:10 Unto God I will praise by discourse; unto the LORD I will praise by word.
PSA 56:11 Unto God I hoped; I will not be afraid in what man shall do to me.
PSA 56:12 In me, O God, are the vows which I shall give of your praise.
PSA 56:13 For you rescued my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from a slip. I shall be well-pleasing before the LORD in the light of the living.
PSA 57:1 To the director; do not utterly destroy; to David; for an inscription on a monument; in his running away from the face of Saul into the cave. Show mercy on me, O God, show mercy on me! For my soul yielded upon you. And in the shadow of your wings I shall hope until of which lawlessness should go by.
PSA 57:2 I shall cry out to God the highest - the God benefiting me.
PSA 57:3 He sent out from heaven, and he delivered me. He put the ones trampling me unto scorn. God sent out his mercy and his truth.
PSA 57:4 And he rescued my soul from the midst of lion cubs. I went to bed being disturbed. Sons of men - their teeth are weapons and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
PSA 57:5 Be raised up high above the heavens, O God, and your glory above all the earth!
PSA 57:6 They prepared a snare for my feet, and bent down my soul. They dug a cesspool before my face, and they fell into it. PAUSE.
PSA 57:7 My heart is prepared, O God, my heart is prepared. I will sing and I will strum in my glory.
PSA 57:8 Awaken, my glory! Awaken, psaltery and harp! I shall awaken at dawn.
PSA 57:9 I will make acknowledgment to you among peoples, O Lord; I will strum to you among nations.
PSA 57:10 For your mercy was magnified unto the heavens, and your truth unto the clouds.
PSA 57:11 Be raised up high above the heavens, O God, and your glory above all the earth!
PSA 58:1 To the director; do not utterly destroy; to David; for an inscription on a monument. Will truly thus you speak righteousness and judge straight, O sons of men?
PSA 58:2 For even in the heart you work lawlessness; in the earth your hands closely join injustice.
PSA 58:3 Sinners were separated from the womb; they wander from the belly; they spoke lies.
PSA 58:4 Rage to them is according to the likeness of the serpent; as a mute asp even plugging her ears;
PSA 58:5 which does not listen to the sound of the sorcerer charming, and the administering of potions by a wise one.
PSA 58:6 God broke their teeth in their mouth; the LORD fractured in pieces the molars of the lions.
PSA 58:7 They shall be treated with contempt as water going along. He shall stretch tight his bow until of which time they shall be weakened.
PSA 58:8 As beeswax melting away, they shall be taken away in return. Fire fell upon them, and they did not see the sun.
PSA 58:9 Before the perceiving of your thorn-bushes - the white-thorn shrub; as living, as in anger, he shall swallow them.
PSA 58:10 The just one shall be glad whenever he should behold punishment. He shall wash his hands in the blood of the sinner.
PSA 58:11 And a man shall say, There is fruit to the just one; there is God judging them in the earth.
PSA 59:1 To the director; do not corrupt; to David; for an inscription on a monument; when Saul sent and guarded his house to kill him. Rescue me from my enemies, O God, and ransom me from the ones rising up against me!
PSA 59:2 Rescue me from the ones working lawlessness, and deliver me from men of blood!
PSA 59:3 For behold, they hunted my life; strong ones put upon me; nor is it because of my lawlessness nor my sin, O LORD.
PSA 59:4 Without lawlessness I ran and straightened out. Awake to meet me, and see!
PSA 59:5 And you, O LORD, the God of the forces, the God of Israel, take heed to visit all the nations! You should not pity any of the ones practicing lawlessness.
PSA 59:6 They shall return at evening, and shall be famished as a dog, and shall circle the city.
PSA 59:7 Behold, they shall declare with their mouths; and the broadsword is in their lips; for they say, Who hears?
PSA 59:8 And you, O LORD, shall laugh out loud at them; you shall treat with contempt all the nations.
PSA 59:9 My might to you I will keep; for you, O God, are my shielder.
PSA 59:10 My God, his mercy shall go beforehand with me. My God shall show to me my desire on my enemies.
PSA 59:11 You should not kill them, lest at any time they should forget your law. Disperse them by your power, and lead them down, O LORD my defender!
PSA 59:12 For the sin of their mouth, and the word of their lips, even let them be seized in their pride; even for cursing and lying which they shall declare!
PSA 59:13 In consummation, by anger of consummation consume, that in no way they should exist; that they shall know that God is master of Jacob, and of the ends of the earth. PAUSE.
PSA 59:14 They shall return at evening, and be famished as a dog, and shall circle the city.
PSA 59:15 They shall be dispersed to eat; but if they should not be filled, then they shall grumble.
PSA 59:16 But I shall sing to your power, and I shall exult in the morning of your mercy; for you became my shielder and my refuge in the day of my affliction.
PSA 59:17 You are my helper, to you I shall strum; for you, O God, are my shielder, my God of my mercy.
PSA 60:1 To the director; for the changings; for an inscription on a monument; to David; for teaching when he set on fire Mesopotamia of Syria, and Syria Zobah; and Joab returned and struck Edom in the ravine of salts - twelve thousand. O God, you thrusted us away, and demolished us. You were provoked to anger, yet you pitied us.
PSA 60:2 You shook the earth, and disturbed it. Heal its breaks; for it was shaken!
PSA 60:3 You showed to your people hard things; you watered us down with the wine of vexation.
PSA 60:4 You gave to the ones fearing you a signal to flee from the face of the bow. PAUSE.
PSA 60:5 So that your beloved should be rescued. Deliver with your right hand, and heed me!
PSA 60:6 God spoke in his holy place; I will exult, and I will divide Shechem; and the valley of the tents I will measure out.
PSA 60:7 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine, and Ephraim is the fortification of my head; Judah is my king;
PSA 60:8 Moab is a kettle of my hope; over Edom I will stretch out my sandal; the Philistines submitted to me.
PSA 60:9 Who shall take me away into the city citadel? Or who shall guide me unto Edom?
PSA 60:10 Will not you, O God, the one thrusting us away? And will you not go forth, O God, with our forces?
PSA 60:11 Give to us help from affliction! for deliverance of man is vain.
PSA 60:12 In God we do powerfully, and he shall treat with contempt the ones afflicting us.
PSA 61:1 To the director; among the hymns to David; a psalm. Listen, O God, to my supplication! Take heed to my prayer!
PSA 61:2 From the ends of the earth I cry out to you. In the discouraging of my heart you lifted me high in the rock; you guided me.
PSA 61:3 For you became my hope, the tower of strength from in front of an enemy.
PSA 61:4 I will sojourn in your tent into the eons; I shall be sheltered in the protection of your wings.
PSA 61:5 For you, O God, listened to my vows. You gave an inheritance to the ones fearing your name.
PSA 61:6 Days upon days of the king - you shall add of his years unto days of generations and generations.
PSA 61:7 He shall abide into the eon before God. Who will seek his mercy and truth?
PSA 61:8 Thus I shall strum to your name into the eons, for me to render my vows day by day.
PSA 62:1 To the director; for Jeduthun; a psalm to David. Shall not my soul be submitted to God, for my deliverance is by him?
PSA 62:2 For even he is my God, and my deliverer, my shielder; in no way should I be shaken by many.
PSA 62:3 For how long do you put upon a man? You all slaughter as a wall leaning, and a fence thrusting through.
PSA 62:4 But they consulted to thrust away my honor - I ran in thirst. With their mouth blessing, but in their heart they cursed.
PSA 62:5 But be submitted to God, O my soul! For my endurance is by him.
PSA 62:6 For he is my God, and my deliverer, my shielder; for in no way should I migrate.
PSA 62:7 By God is my deliverance and my glory; the God of my help - and my hope is upon God.
PSA 62:8 Hope upon him, all you gathering people! Pour out before him your hearts! For God is our helper. PAUSE.
PSA 62:9 But the sons of men are vain; the sons of men are false weights in the yoke balance scales to do wrong, they are of folly all together.
PSA 62:10 Hope not upon unrighteousness, and long not after a thing seized! If wealth should flow, set not the heart upon it!
PSA 62:11 Once God spoke, and these two things I heard; that might is of God,
PSA 62:12 and of you, O Lord, is mercy. For you recompense each according to his works.
PSA 63:1 A psalm to David; in his being in the wilderness of Judah. O God, my God, to you I rise early. My soul thirsted for you. How often my flesh longed for you in a barren and untrodden and waterless land.
PSA 63:2 Thus in the holy place I appeared to you, to behold your power and your glory.
PSA 63:3 For your mercy is better than life. My lips shall praise you.
PSA 63:4 Thus will I bless you in my life. I will lift my hands in your name.
PSA 63:5 As of fat and fatness, may my soul be filled; and with lips of exultation my mouth shall praise.
PSA 63:6 Forasmuch as I remembered you upon my strewn bed; at the dawns I meditated on you.
PSA 63:7 For you are my helper, and in the protection of your wings I shall exult.
PSA 63:8 My soul shall cleave after you; but your right hand took hold of me.
PSA 63:9 But they seek my soul in folly; they shall enter into the lowermost part of the earth.
PSA 63:10 They shall be delivered up into the hands of the broadsword; they will be portions for foxes.
PSA 63:11 But the king shall be glad upon God; all swearing by an oath in him shall be praised, for he obstructed the mouth of the ones speaking unjustly.
PSA 64:1 To the director; a psalm to David. Hear, O God, my voice, in my beseeching to you! Rescue my soul from the fear of the enemy!
PSA 64:2 Shelter me from the conspiracy of the ones acting wickedly; from the multitude of the ones working iniquity!
PSA 64:3 The ones who sharpened their tongues as a broadsword stretched tight their bow for a bitter thing;
PSA 64:4 to shoot in concealed places at the unblemished. Suddenly they will shoot him, and they will not fear.
PSA 64:5 They determined for themselves an evil matter; they describe to themselves how to hide snares. They said, Who shall see them?
PSA 64:6 They searched out lawlessness; they failed while searching out in the search. Man shall come forward, and the heart is deep;
PSA 64:7 and God shall be exalted; the arrow missile. of infants became their calamities;
PSA 64:8 and their tongues treated him with contempt. All the ones viewing them were disturbed;
PSA 64:9 and every man was fearful. And they announced the works of God, and they perceived his actions.
PSA 64:10 The just one shall be glad in the LORD, and shall hope upon him; and all the straight in the shall be praised heart.
PSA 65:1 To the director; a psalm of an ode; to David. A hymn is becoming to you, O God, in Zion; and to you the vow shall be rendered in Jerusalem.
PSA 65:2 Listen to my prayer! All flesh shall come to you.
PSA 65:3 Lawless words overpowered us, but you shall atone our impieties.
PSA 65:4 Blessed is whom you chose, and took to yourself; he shall encamp in your courtyards. We shall be filled in the good things of your house - your holy temple.
PSA 65:5 Wonderful in righteousness - heed us, O God our deliverer! He is the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of the ones in the sea afar;
PSA 65:6 preparing mountains in his strength; being girded in dominion;
PSA 65:7 the one disturbing the extent of the sea - at the sounds of its waves who shall stand?
PSA 65:8 The nations shall be disturbed, and the ones dwelling at the ends shall fear from your signs. The exitings of the morning and evening you shall make happy.
PSA 65:9 You visited the earth, and you intoxicated it. You multiplied to enrich it. The river of God is filled with waters. You prepared their nourishment, for thus is its preparation.
PSA 65:10 Saturate her furrows! Multiply her produce! By her drops the produce shall be glad while rising.
PSA 65:11 You shall bless the crown of the year because of your graciousness; and your plains shall be filled in fatness.
PSA 65:12 The beautiful mountains of the wilderness shall be fattened; and the hills shall gird themselves in exultation.
PSA 65:13 The rams of the sheep shall put on wool, and the valleys shall multiply grain. They shall cry out, for even they will sing praise.
PSA 66:1 To the director; an ode; a psalm of rising up. Shout to the LORD all the earth!
PSA 66:2 Strum indeed to his name! Give glory of his praise!
PSA 66:3 Say to God! How fearful are your works. In the magnitude of your power your enemies shall lie to you.
PSA 66:4 Let all the earth do obeisance to you, and strum unto you! Let them strum to your name the highest! PAUSE.
PSA 66:5 Come and see the works of God! as fearful in counsels above the sons of men.
PSA 66:6 The one converting the sea into dry land; in the river they shall go through on foot. There we shall be glad in him -
PSA 66:7 to the one being master in his domination of the eon. His eyes look upon the nations. Let not the ones greatly embittering him raise themselves up high! PAUSE.
PSA 66:8 Bless, O nations, our God, and cause the voice of his praise to be heard!
PSA 66:9 He is the one who establishes my soul for life, and not granting my feet for tossing about.
PSA 66:10 For you tried us, O God; you purified us as silver is purified.
PSA 66:11 You brought us into the snare; you put afflictions upon our back.
PSA 66:12 You set men over our heads; we went through fire and water; but you led us unto respite.
PSA 66:13 I will enter into your house with whole burnt offerings. I will render to you my vows,
PSA 66:14 which my lips drew apart, and my mouth spoke in my affliction.
PSA 66:15 Whole burnt-offerings being filled with marrow I will offer to you, with incense and rams. I will offer to you oxen with winter yearlings. PAUSE.
PSA 66:16 Come listen, and I will describe to you (all ones fearing God) as many things as he did for my soul!
PSA 66:17 To him with my mouth I cried out, and I raised up high by my tongue.
PSA 66:18 If I had viewed injustice in my heart, let the Lord not listen to me!
PSA 66:19 On account of this God listened to me; he took heed to the voice of my supplication.
PSA 66:20 Blessed be the God who separated not from my prayer, and his mercy from me.
PSA 67:1 To the director; among hymns; a psalm of an ode; to David. God - may he pity us, and bless us to shine his face upon us, and to show mercy on us;
PSA 67:2 to know in the earth your way; among all nations your deliverance.
PSA 67:3 Let the peoples make acknowledgment to you, O God, let all peoples make acknowledgment to you!
PSA 67:4 Be glad and exult, O nations! For you shall judge the peoples in straightness, and you shall guide the nations in the earth. PAUSE.
PSA 67:5 Let peoples make acknowledgment to you, O God, let all peoples make acknowledgment to you!
PSA 67:6 The earth gave her fruit - may God our God bless us.
PSA 67:7 May God bless us, and let all the ends of the earth fear him!
PSA 68:1 To the director; a psalm of an ode; to David. Let God arise, and let his enemies be dispersed, and let the ones detesting him flee from his face!
PSA 68:2 As smoke dissipates, let them dissipate! As beeswax melts away from the face of the fire, thus shall the sinners be destroyed from the face of God.
PSA 68:3 But let the just ones be glad! Let them exult in the presence of God! Let them be made happy with gladness!
PSA 68:4 Sing to God! Strum to his name! Open the way to the one being mounted unto the west - the LORD is his name, and exult before him! They shall be disturbed before his face.
PSA 68:5 The father of the orphans, and judge of the widows - God in his holy place.
PSA 68:6 God settles simple people in a house; leading out the prisoners being shackled in courage; in like manner the ones being greatly embittered, dwelling in tombs.
PSA 68:7 O God, in your going forth before your people in your passing over in the wilderness,
PSA 68:8 the earth was shaken. For even the heavens dripped water before the face of the God of Sinai; before the face of the God of Israel.
PSA 68:9 Will you separate rain as a voluntary act, O God, for your inheritance? Even it was weak, but you restored it.
PSA 68:10 Your living creatures dwell in it; you prepared in your graciousness for the poor.
PSA 68:11 The LORD God shall give discourse to the ones announcing good news for a great force.
PSA 68:12 The king of the forces of the beloved, for the beauty of the house to divide the spoils.
PSA 68:13 If you should sleep in the midst of the lots, the wings of the dove being silver plated, and her upper back in greenness of gold;
PSA 68:14 in the heavenly one drawing apart the kings upon it, they shall be made as snow in Salmon.
PSA 68:15 The mountain of God; the mountain being plentiful; the mountain for making cheese; the mountain being plentiful.
PSA 68:16 Why do you undertake, O mountains making cheese, the mountain which God thinks well to dwell in it? For even the LORD encamps unto the end.
PSA 68:17 The chariot of God - ten thousand-fold; thousands of prospering ones. The LORD among them in Sinai, in the holy place.
PSA 68:18 You ascended into the height; you captured captivity; you received gifts by men; for even to encamp among the ones resisting persuasion.
PSA 68:19 The LORD God blessed. Blessed be the LORD day by day, for you greatly prospered to us, O God of our deliverances.
PSA 68:20 Our God, the God to deliver, even the LORD delivering the ones at the outer reaches of death.
PSA 68:21 But God shall fracture in pieces the heads of his enemies; the hairy tops of heads traveling in their trespasses.
PSA 68:22 The LORD said from out of Bashan, I shall return. I shall return in the depths of the sea.
PSA 68:23 That your foot should be dipped in blood, and the tongue of your dogs be stained from his enemies.
PSA 68:24 Your goings were viewed, O God; the goings of my God, the king, in the holy place.
PSA 68:25 Rulers went beforehand being next to ones strumming; in the midst of young women performing on tambourines.
PSA 68:26 In assemblies bless God, the LORD from the springs of Israel!
PSA 68:27 There Benjamin the younger is in astonishment, even the rulers of Judah, and their governors, the rulers of Zebulun, the rulers of Naphtali.
PSA 68:28 Give charge, O God, to your power! Strengthen, O God, this which you worked out among us!
PSA 68:29 Because of your temple at Jerusalem kings will bring gifts to you.
PSA 68:30 Give reproach to the wild beasts of the reed; to the gathering of the bulls among the heifers of the peoples; to lock up the ones being tried by silver! Disperse the nations wanting wars!
PSA 68:31 Ambassadors shall come from out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall go beforehand with her hand to God.
PSA 68:32 O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God! Strum to the LORD! PAUSE.
PSA 68:33 to the one mounting upon the heaven of the heaven, according to the east. Behold, he shall make by his voice a sound of power.
PSA 68:34 Give glory to God! His majesty is over Israel, and his power is in the clouds.
PSA 68:35 God is wonderful in his holy places. The God of Israel - he shall give power and fortification to his people. Blessed be God.
PSA 69:1 To the director; for the changings; a psalm to David. Deliver me, O God! For the waters entered into my soul.
PSA 69:2 I was stuck in deep slime, and there is not a support. I came to the depths of the sea, and the gale sank me.
PSA 69:3 I tired crying out; my throat is sore; my eyes failed from my hope upon my God.
PSA 69:4 The ones detesting me without a charge multiplied over the hairs of my head. My enemies were strengthened, the ones driving me out unjustly; then I paid for what I did not seize by force.
PSA 69:5 O God, you know my folly, and my trespasses, they are not concealed from you.
PSA 69:6 May the ones waiting upon you not be ashamed over me, O LORD, O LORD of the forces. May the ones seeking you not feel shame over me, O God of Israel.
PSA 69:7 For because of you I endured scorning; shame covered my face.
PSA 69:8 I was one being separated from my brothers, and a stranger to the sons of my mother.
PSA 69:9 For the zeal of your house devoured me, and the scornings of the ones berating you fell upon me.
PSA 69:10 And I covered my soul in fasting, and it became for scornings to me.
PSA 69:11 And I put on sackcloth for my garment, and I became to them as a parable.
PSA 69:12 The ones sitting down at the gates meditated against me; and against me they strummed - the ones drinking wine.
PSA 69:13 But I, my prayer is to you, O LORD, at a time of benevolence. O God, in the multitude of your mercies heed me in the truth of your deliverance!
PSA 69:14 Deliver me from mud, that I should not be stuck! May I be rescued from the ones detesting me, and from the depths of the waters.
PSA 69:15 Let not the gale of water sink me, nor let the deep swallow me, nor let the well constrain its mouth over me!
PSA 69:16 Listen to me, O LORD, for your mercy is gracious! According to the multitude of your compassions look upon me!
PSA 69:17 You should not turn your face from your servant, for I am afflicted. Quickly heed me!
PSA 69:18 Take heed to my soul, and ransom it! Rescue me because of my enemies!
PSA 69:19 For you know my scorning, and my shame, and my remorse. Before you are all the ones afflicting me.
PSA 69:20 My soul expected scorning and misery; and I remained behind for one grieving, and he did not exist; and for ones comforting, but I did not find.
PSA 69:21 And they gave bile for my food; and for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
PSA 69:22 Let their table before them become as a snare, and for a recompense, and for an obstacle!
PSA 69:23 Let their eyes be darkened to not see, and their back always bent downwards!
PSA 69:24 Pour out upon them your anger! And may the rage of your anger overtake them.
PSA 69:25 Let their property become having been made desolate! And let there not be one dwelling in their tents!
PSA 69:26 For whom you struck, they pursued; and they added to the pain of my wounds.
PSA 69:27 Add lawlessness upon their lawlessness, and let not your righteousness enter in!
PSA 69:28 Let them be wiped away from out of the book of the living, and let them not be written with the just ones!
PSA 69:29 I am poor and aching. Your deliverance, O God, may it take hold of me.
PSA 69:30 I will praise the name of my God with an ode; I shall magnify him in praise,
PSA 69:31 and it shall please God above a young calf bringing forth horns and hoofs.
PSA 69:32 Let the poor see and be glad! Inquire God, and your soul shall live!
PSA 69:33 For the LORD listens to the needy; and the ones of his being shackled he does not treat with contempt.
PSA 69:34 Let the heavens praise him, and the earth, sea, and all the things crawling in her!
PSA 69:35 For God shall deliver Zion, and the cities of Judea shall be built up. And they shall dwell there, and they shall inherit her.
PSA 69:36 And the seed of your servants shall hold her; and the ones loving his name shall encamp in her.
PSA 70:1 To the director; to David; for remembrance in my being delivered by the LORD. O God, for my help heed me! O LORD, hasten to help me!
PSA 70:2 Let the ones seeking my life be ashamed and feel remorse! Let the ones wanting bad things for me be turned to the rear and be disgraced!
PSA 70:3 Let them be turned immediately, being shamed - the ones saying to me, Well done, well done!
PSA 70:4 Let them exult and be glad over you - all the ones seeking you, O God! And let them say always, Let the LORD be magnified! by the ones loving your deliverance.
PSA 70:5 But I am poor and needy, O God, help me! You are my helper and my rescuer, O LORD, you should not delay.
PSA 71:1 A psalm to David of the sons of Jonadab, and of the ones originally being taken captive. Upon you, O LORD, I hoped. May I not be disgraced into the eon.
PSA 71:2 In your righteousness rescue me, and take me! Lean your ear to me, and deliver me!
PSA 71:3 Be to me for a defending God, and for a fortified place to deliver me! for you are my confirmation and my refuge.
PSA 71:4 O my God, rescue me from the hand of the sinner, from the hand of the one acting unlawfully and doing wrong!
PSA 71:5 For you are my endurance, O Lord; O LORD, the one of my hope from my youth.
PSA 71:6 From the womb I stayed upon you; from the belly of my mother you are my shelterer. My singing praise is always about you.
PSA 71:7 I was as it were a miracle to the many; but you are my fortified helper.
PSA 71:8 Let my mouth be filled of praise, that I may praise in song of your glory - the entire day of your majesty!
PSA 71:9 You should not throw me away in the time of old age; in the failing of my strength you should not abandon me.
PSA 71:10 For my enemies spoke against me; and the ones watching out for my life consulted together,
PSA 71:11 saying, God abandoned him; pursue and overtake him! for there is not one rescuing him.
PSA 71:12 O my God, you should not be far from me. O my God, take heed to my help!
PSA 71:13 Let the ones slandering my soul be shamed and fail! Let the ones seeking bad things for me put on shame and remorse!
PSA 71:14 But I always shall hope upon you, and I will add upon all your praise.
PSA 71:15 My mouth shall announce your righteousness the entire day - your deliverance; for I did not know writings.
PSA 71:16 I will enter in the might of the LORD. O LORD, I will mention your righteousness only.
PSA 71:17 You taught me, O God, from my youth; and until now I will report your wonders.
PSA 71:18 Even until old age, and of a senior, O my God, you should not abandon me; until whenever I should report your arm to every coming generation;
PSA 71:19 of your might and of your righteousness, O God, unto the highests, what magnificent things you did to me. O God, who is likened to you?
PSA 71:20 As much as you showed to me - many afflictions and bad things; but turning, you restored life to me, and from out of the abysses of the earth you led me.
PSA 71:21 You abounded to me your greatness, and turning you comforted me. And from out of the abysses of the earth again you led me.
PSA 71:22 For also I will make acknowledgment to you among peoples, O LORD. With an instrument for a psalm of your truth, O God. I shall strum to you with the harp, O holy one of Israel.
PSA 71:23 My lips shall exult whenever I should strum to you; and my soul which you ransomed.
PSA 71:24 But still also my tongue shall meditate upon your righteousness all the day, whenever the ones seeking bad things for me should be ashamed and should feel remorse.
PSA 72:1 For Solomon; a psalm to David. O God, give your judgment to the king, and your righteousness to the son of the king!
PSA 72:2 to judge your people in righteousness, and your poor with equity.
PSA 72:3 Let the mountains lift up peace to the people, and the hills righteousness!
PSA 72:4 He shall judge the poor of the people, and shall deliver the sons of the needy, and shall humble the extortioner.
PSA 72:5 And he shall continue as the sun, and before the moon for generations of generations.
PSA 72:6 He shall come down as rain upon fleece, and as drops dripping upon the earth.
PSA 72:7 Righteousness shall rise in his days, and a multitude of peace until of which the moon should be taken away.
PSA 72:8 And he shall dominate from sea unto sea, and from rivers unto the ends of the inhabitable world.
PSA 72:9 Ethiopians shall fall down before him; and his enemies shall lick dust.
PSA 72:10 Kings of Tarshish and the islands shall bring gifts. The kings of the Arabians and Sheba will come forward with gifts.
PSA 72:11 And all the kings of the earth shall do obeisance to him. All the nations shall serve to him.
PSA 72:12 For he rescued the poor from the mighty one, and the needy one in whom a helper existed not.
PSA 72:13 He shall spare the poor and needy; and the souls of the needy he shall deliver.
PSA 72:14 From interest and from injustice he shall ransom their souls; and his valued name will be before them.
PSA 72:15 And he shall live, and there shall be given to him from the gold of Arabia. And they shall pray for him always; the entire day they shall bless him.
PSA 72:16 There will be a support on the earth upon the tops of the mountains. His fruit shall be elevated above Lebanon; and they of the city shall blossom as grass of the earth.
PSA 72:17 His name will be a blessing into the eons. His name shall abide before the sun; and all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed by him. All the nations shall declare him blessed.
PSA 72:18 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, the one doing wonders alone.
PSA 72:19 And being blessed is the name of his glory into the eon, and into the eon of the eon. And all the earth shall be filled of his glory. May it be. May it be.
PSA 72:20 The hymns of David the son of Jesse are ended.
PSA 73:1 A psalm to Asaph. O how good is God to Israel, to the ones straight in the heart.
PSA 73:2 But my feet were a little shaken; my footsteps slipped a little.
PSA 73:3 For I was jealous over the lawless things, viewing the peace of sinners.
PSA 73:4 For there is not a sign of reluctance in their death, nor confirmation in their whip.
PSA 73:5 In toils of men they are not troubled, and with other men they will not be whipped.
PSA 73:6 On account of this their pride held them to the end. They clothed themselves of their own injustice and impiety.
PSA 73:7 Their injustice comes forth as from out of fatness. They went by disposition of heart.
PSA 73:8 They considered, and spoke in wickedness; they spoke injustice in haughtiness.
PSA 73:9 They set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue went through upon the earth.
PSA 73:10 On account of this my people shall return here; and full days shall be found with them.
PSA 73:11 And they said, How did God know? And, Is there knowledge in the highest?
PSA 73:12 Behold, these are the sinners, and prospering into the eon, holding wealth.
PSA 73:13 And I said, Surely in folly I justified my heart, and washed my hands in innocent things;
PSA 73:14 and became for whipping all the day; and my reproof is in the mornings.
PSA 73:15 If I had said, I shall describe thus; behold, in the generation of your sons I have broken contract.
PSA 73:16 And I undertook to know this, but it is toilsome before me;
PSA 73:17 until of which time I should enter into the sanctuary of God, and should perceive to their latter end.
PSA 73:18 Besides, on account of their deceits you appointed evils unto them; you threw them down in their being lifted up.
PSA 73:19 O how they became for desolation. Suddenly they failed; they were destroyed because of their lawlessness.
PSA 73:20 As a dream of one awakening, O LORD, in your city, you will treat their image with contempt.
PSA 73:21 For my heart was kindled, and my kidneys were changed.
PSA 73:22 And I being with contempt, and not knowing, became brutish before you.
PSA 73:23 But I was always with you; you held my right hand,
PSA 73:24 and in your counsel you guided me, and with glory you received me.
PSA 73:25 For what exists to me in the heaven? And besides you, what did I want upon the earth?
PSA 73:26 My heart and my flesh failed. God is the strength of my heart, and God is my portion into the eon.
PSA 73:27 For behold, the ones being far from you by their own makings shall perish. You utterly destroyed every one committing harlotry from you.
PSA 73:28 But for me to cleave to God is good; to put my hope in the LORD; for me to declare all your praises at the gates of the daughter of Zion.
PSA 74:1 A psalm of contemplation to Asaph. O God, why did you thrust us away unto the end? Why is your rage provoked to anger against the sheep of your pasture?
PSA 74:2 Remember your congregation of which you acquired from the beginning! You ransomed the rod of your inheritance; this mount Zion, where you encamped in it.
PSA 74:3 Lift up your hands against their pride unto completion, for as much as the enemy did wickedly in your holy place!
PSA 74:4 And the ones detesting you boasted in the midst of your holiday; they set their signs for signs;
PSA 74:5 and they knew not as in the issue above, as they cut down in the forest of woods with axes,
PSA 74:6 so they broke down its doors together with a hewing axe and chisel.
PSA 74:7 They set your sanctuary on fire to the ground. They profaned the tent of your name.
PSA 74:8 Their kin together said in their heart, Come and let us cause to cease all the holidays of God from the land!
PSA 74:9 We did not see our signs; there is not yet a prophet; and\ one of us knows not any longer.
PSA 74:10 For how long, O God, shall the enemy berate? He provokes the opposition of your name to the end.
PSA 74:11 Why did you turn away your hand, even your right hand, from the midst of your bosom to the end?
PSA 74:12 But God our king is before the eon; he worked deliverance in the midst of the earth.
PSA 74:13 You held the sea in check by your power. You broke the heads of the dragons upon the water.
PSA 74:14 You fractured the heads of the dragon; you gave him for food to the Ethiopian peoples.
PSA 74:15 You tore open the springs and rushing streams. You dried the rivers of continuance.
PSA 74:16 Yours is the day, and yours is the night; you fashioned giving light and the sun.
PSA 74:17 You made all the boundaries of the earth; summer and spring, you shaped them.
PSA 74:18 Remember this, that an enemy berated the LORD, and a foolish people provoked your name!
PSA 74:19 You should not deliver up a soul making acknowledgment to you to the wild beasts; of the souls of your needy you should not forget to the end.
PSA 74:20 Look unto your covenant! For the ones being darkened filled the earth of houses of lawlessnesses.
PSA 74:21 Let not the one being humbled be turned away being disgraced! The poor and needy shall praise your name.
PSA 74:22 Rise up, O God, adjudicate your cause! Remember your scorning by the foolish one the entire day!
PSA 74:23 You should not forget the voice of your servants; the pride of the ones detesting you ascended continually.
PSA 75:1 To the director; do not destroy; a psalm of an ode to Asaph. I will make acknowledgment to you, O God; I will make acknowledgment, and shall call upon your name. I shall describe all your wonders.
PSA 75:2 Whenever I should receive the appointed time I shall judge in straightness.
PSA 75:3 The earth melted away and all the ones dwelling in it. PAUSE. I solidified its columns.
PSA 75:4 I said to the ones acting unlawfully, Do not act unlawfully! And to the sinners, Do not exalt the horn!
PSA 75:5 Do not lift up your horn unto the height, and do not speak against God in unrighteousness,
PSA 75:6 and that neither from exitings, nor from descents, nor from desolate mountains,
PSA 75:7 for God is judge! This one he humbles, and this one he raises up high.
PSA 75:8 For a cup is in the hand of the LORD of undiluted wine, a full mixture; and he leans it this way unto this other way; but its wine with dregs was not emptied out - all the sinners of the earth shall drink it.
PSA 75:9 But I shall exult into the eon; I shall strum to the God of Jacob.
PSA 75:10 And all the horns of the sinners I shall fracture in pieces together, and the horn of the just one shall be exalted.
PSA 76:1 To the director; among the hymns; a psalm to Asaph; an ode to the Assyrian. God is made known in Judea; in Israel his name is great,
PSA 76:2 and his place became for peace, and his home is in Zion.
PSA 76:3 There he broke the might of the bows, the shield, and the broadsword, and war.
PSA 76:4 You wonderfully give light from the eternal mountains.
PSA 76:5 All the senseless in the heart were disturbed. All the men of wealth slept their sleep and did not find one thing in their hands.
PSA 76:6 Because of your reproach, O God of Jacob, the ones mounting the horses slumbered.
PSA 76:7 You are fearful, and who shall oppose you? For how long is your anger?
PSA 76:8 From out of the heaven you caused judgment to be heard. The earth feared, and was still,
PSA 76:9 in the rising up for judgment by God, to deliver all the gentle in the earth. PAUSE.
PSA 76:10 For the inner thought of man shall make acknowledgment to you; and what is left of the inner thought shall solemnize a holiday to you.
PSA 76:11 Make a vow, and render to the LORD our God! All the ones round about him shall bring gifts
PSA 76:12 to the fearful one, and the one removing spirits of rulers - fearful to the kings of the earth.
PSA 77:1 To the director; for Jeduthun; a psalm to Asaph. With my voice I cried out to the LORD; my voice to God, and he heeded me.
PSA 77:2 In the day of my affliction I inquired of God. By night my hands were before him, and I was not deceived. My soul refused to be comforted.
PSA 77:3 I remembered God, and was glad. I meditated, and my spirit was faint-hearted. PAUSE.
PSA 77:4 My eyes first took watches; I was disturbed and I spoke not.
PSA 77:5 I reasoned about ancient days; and I remembered everlasting years.
PSA 77:6 And I meditated by night; with my heart I conversed, and my spirit tilled.
PSA 77:7 Shall the Lord thrust away into the eons? And will he proceed to not think well of any more?
PSA 77:8 Or, will he cut off his mercy at the end? Did he finish entirely his discourse from generation to generations?
PSA 77:9 Shall God forget to pity, or hold up his compassions in his anger? PAUSE.
PSA 77:10 And I said, Now I began this change of the right hand of the highest.
PSA 77:11 I remembered the works of the LORD; for I shall remember your wonders from the beginning,
PSA 77:12 and shall meditate on all your works; even in your practices I will meditate.
PSA 77:13 O God, your way is in the holy place. What God is great as our God?
PSA 77:14 You are God, the one doing wonders. You made known among the peoples your power.
PSA 77:15 You ransomed your people by your arm - the sons of Jacob and Joseph.
PSA 77:16 The waters beheld you, O God, the waters beheld you and feared; the abysses were disturbed.
PSA 77:17 There was a multitude of noises of waters; the clouds gave out a sound; for also your arrows travel abroad.
PSA 77:18 The sound of your thunder in the wheel; your lightnings appeared to the inhabitable world; the earth was shaken and trembling took place.
PSA 77:19 Your ways are in the sea, and your roads are in many waters, and your footsteps shall not be known.
PSA 77:20 You guided your people as sheep by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
PSA 78:1 A contemplation to Asaph. Take heed, my people, to my law! Lean your ear to the words of my mouth!
PSA 78:2 I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter riddles from the beginning;
PSA 78:3 as many as we heard and know them, and our fathers described to us.
PSA 78:4 They were not hidden from their children for another generation; but are reporting the praises of the LORD, and his dominations, and his wonders which he did.
PSA 78:5 For he raised up a testimony in Jacob, and he put a law in Israel, which he gave charge to our fathers, to make them known to their sons;
PSA 78:6 so that another generation should know - the sons being birthed. And they shall rise up and report them to their sons,
PSA 78:7 that they should put their hope upon God, and should not forget the works of God, but shall inquire of his commandments;
PSA 78:8 that they should not become as their fathers - a crooked and greatly embittered generation; a generation which did not straightened out its own heart, and its spirit was not trustworthy with God.
PSA 78:9 The sons of Ephraim, stretching tight and shooting with bows, turned back in the day of battle.
PSA 78:10 They guarded not the covenant of God, and They did not want to go by his law.
PSA 78:11 And they forgot his good works, and his wonders which he showed to them -
PSA 78:12 what wonders he did before their fathers in the land of Egypt, in the plain of Tanis;
PSA 78:13 he tore up the sea, and led them through; he stood the waters as a water bag;
PSA 78:14 and he guided them with a cloud by day, and the entire night with illumination of fire;
PSA 78:15 he tore open the rock in the wilderness, and gave them a drink as in a vast deep;
PSA 78:16 and he brought water from the rock, and led it down as rivers of waters.
PSA 78:17 And they proceeded still to sin against him. They greatly embittered the highest in a waterless place.
PSA 78:18 And they put God to the test in their hearts to ask for foods for their lives.
PSA 78:19 And they spoke ill of God, and said, Shall God be able to prepare a table in the wilderness?
PSA 78:20 For when he struck the rock, and there flowed waters, and rushing streams inundated, shall also he be able to give bread, or prepare a table for his people?
PSA 78:21 On account of this the LORD heard, and he was raised in anger; and a fire was lit in Jacob, and anger ascended upon Israel;
PSA 78:22 for they did not trust in God, nor did they hope upon his deliverance.
PSA 78:23 And he gave charge to clouds far above, and the doors of heaven were opened,
PSA 78:24 and manna rained upon them to eat, and he gave to them bread of heaven.
PSA 78:25 Man ate bread of angels; he sent to them provisions in fullness.
PSA 78:26 He departed the south wind from heaven, and he brought on by his power the southwest wind.
PSA 78:27 And he rained flesh upon them as dust; even feathered winged creatures as the sand of the seas.
PSA 78:28 And they fell in the midst of their camp round about their tents.
PSA 78:29 And they ate, and were filled up exceedingly. And he brought their desire to them.
PSA 78:30 They were not deprived of their desire; but food was in their mouth,
PSA 78:31 and the anger of God ascended upon them, and he killed in their plenty, and the chosen ones of Israel he impeded.
PSA 78:32 In all these things they sinned still, and trusted not in his wonders.
PSA 78:33 And their days ended in folly, and their years with haste.
PSA 78:34 Whenever he killed them, then they sought him; and they turned and rose early to search for God.
PSA 78:35 And they remembered that God is their helper, and God the highest is their ransomer.
PSA 78:36 And they loved him by their mouth, but by their tongue they lied to him.
PSA 78:37 And their heart was not straight with him, nor did they trust in his covenant.
PSA 78:38 But he is one pitying, and he shall atone their sins, and will not utterly destroy, and will fill the turning of his rage, and shall not kindle all his anger.
PSA 78:39 And he remembered that they are flesh; a wind going forth, and not returning.
PSA 78:40 How often they greatly embittered him in the wilderness; they provoked him to anger in a waterless land,
PSA 78:41 and they turned and tested God; even the holy one of Israel they provoked.
PSA 78:42 They did not remember his hand the day of which he ransomed them from out of the hand of one afflicting.
PSA 78:43 How he made his signs in Egypt, and his miracles in the plain of Tanis.
PSA 78:44 And he converted their rivers into blood, and their showers so as to not drink.
PSA 78:45 He sent to them the dog-fly, and it devoured them; and the frog, and it ruined them.
PSA 78:46 And he appointed the blight for their fruits, and the locust for their miseries.
PSA 78:47 He killed their grapevine by hail, and their sycamine trees by the frost.
PSA 78:48 And he delivered up their cattle unto hail, and their possessions to the fire.
PSA 78:49 He sent out to them the anger of his rage; rage and anger and affliction - a commission through wicked angels.
PSA 78:50 He opened the road by his anger; he spared not their souls from death; and he consigned their cattle to death.
PSA 78:51 And he struck every first-born in the land of Egypt; first-fruit of all their toil in the tents of Ham.
PSA 78:52 And he departed his people as sheep, and led them up as a flock in the wilderness.
PSA 78:53 And he guided them with hope; and they were not timid, and the sea covered their enemies.
PSA 78:54 And he brought them into his sanctified mountain; this mountain which his right hand acquired.
PSA 78:55 And he cast out nations before their face, and allotted them by a line of inheritance. And he encamped the tribes of Israel among their tents.
PSA 78:56 And they tested and greatly embittered God the highest, and his testimonies they did not keep.
PSA 78:57 And they turned and annulled, as also their fathers were converted into a crooked bow.
PSA 78:58 And they provoked him to anger in their hills. And in their carvings they provoked him to jealousy.
PSA 78:59 God heard, and he overlooked; and he treated Israel with contempt exceedingly.
PSA 78:60 And he thrust away the tent of Shiloh, the tent in which he encamped among men.
PSA 78:61 And he delivered up their strength into captivity, and their beauty into the hands of enemies.
PSA 78:62 And he consigned his people by the broadsword; and his inheritance he overlooked.
PSA 78:63 Their young men were devoured by fire, and their virgins were not mourned for.
PSA 78:64 Their priests fell by the broadsword; and their widows shall not be wept over.
PSA 78:65 And the LORD awakened as from sleep, as a mighty one being dizzy from wine.
PSA 78:66 And he struck his enemies unto the rear; he appointed them for eternal scorn.
PSA 78:67 And he thrust away the tent of Joseph; and the tribe of Ephraim he did not choose.
PSA 78:68 He chose the tribe of Judah, mount Zion which he loved.
PSA 78:69 And he built his sanctuary as the unicorn in the earth; he laid its foundation into the eon.
PSA 78:70 And he chose David his servant, and took him from out of the flocks of the sheep.
PSA 78:71 From behind the ones giving birth he took him, to tend Jacob his servant, and Israel his inheritance.
PSA 78:72 And he tended them in the innocence of his heart; and in the skillfulness of his hands he guided them.
PSA 79:1 A psalm to Asaph. O God, nations come into your inheritance; they defiled your holy temple; they made Jerusalem as a vacant storehouse of fruits.
PSA 79:2 They made the decaying flesh of your servants foods for the winged creatures of the heaven; the flesh of your sacred ones for the wild beasts of the earth.
PSA 79:3 They poured out their blood as water round about Jerusalem; and there was not one burying them.
PSA 79:4 We became scorn to our neighbors, a sneering and taunting by the ones round about us.
PSA 79:5 For how long, O LORD? Will you be provoked to anger to the end? Will your zeal burn as fire?
PSA 79:6 Pour out your anger upon nations not perceiving you, and upon kingdoms in which they called not upon your name!
PSA 79:7 For they devoured Jacob, and made his place desolate.
PSA 79:8 You should not remember our lawless deeds of old. Quickly let your compassions be first to take us, for we are exceedingly poor!
PSA 79:9 Help us, O God our deliverer, because of the glory of your name! O LORD, rescue us, and atone our sins, because of your name!
PSA 79:10 Lest at any time the nations should say, Where is their God? Then let it be known among the nations, before our eyes, the vengeance for the blood of your servants being poured out!
PSA 79:11 Let the moaning of the ones being shackled enter before you! According to the greatness of your arm protect the sons of the ones being put to death!
PSA 79:12 Repay to our neighbors seven-fold into their bosom, for their scorning which they berated you, O LORD!
PSA 79:13 But we are your people, and sheep of your pasture. We shall confess to you, O God, into the eon. For generation and generation we shall declare your praise.
PSA 80:1 To the director; for the changings; a testimony to Asaph; a psalm. O one tending Israel, take heed! O one guiding Joseph as sheep, sitting down upon the cherubim, appear!
PSA 80:2 Before Ephraim, and Benjamin, and Manasseh - awaken your might, and come for the delivering us!
PSA 80:3 O God, turn towards us, and let your face appear, and we shall be delivered!
PSA 80:4 O LORD God of the forces, until how long are you provoked to anger over the prayer of your servants?
PSA 80:5 You shall feed us bread of tears, and give us to drink with tears by measure.
PSA 80:6 You made us for dispute to our neighbors; and our enemies sneer at us.
PSA 80:7 O LORD God of the forces, turn towards us, and let your face appear, and we shall be delivered!
PSA 80:8 You moved a grapevine from out of Egypt; you cast out nations, and planted her.
PSA 80:9 You opened a way before her, and you planted her roots, and the earth was filled.
PSA 80:10 Her shadow covered mountains, and her tendrils covered the cedars of God.
PSA 80:11 She stretched out her vine branches unto the sea, and her shoots unto the rivers.
PSA 80:12 Why did you demolish her barrier, and all the ones passing by the way gather her vintage?
PSA 80:13 The pig from the forest laid her wasted, and the wild boar feeds on her.
PSA 80:14 O God of the forces, turn towards us indeed! And look upon us from out of heaven, and behold, and visit this grapevine!
PSA 80:15 And ready her whom your right hand planted, and upon the son of man whom you fortified to yourself!
PSA 80:16 She is being set on fire and being dug up. From the reproach of your face they shall be destroyed.
PSA 80:17 Let your hand be upon the man of your right, even upon the son of man whom you strengthened to yourself.
PSA 80:18 For in no way should we separate from you. You shall enliven us, and we shall call upon your name.
PSA 80:19 O LORD God of the forces, turn towards us, and let your face appear, and we shall be delivered!
PSA 81:1 To the director; for the wine vats; a psalm to Asaph. Exult to God our helper! Shout to the God of Jacob!
PSA 81:2 Take a psalm, and utter a sound on the tambourine, and the delightful psaltery with the harp!
PSA 81:3 Trump during the new moon - a trumpet in the well-marked day of your holiday!
PSA 81:4 For it is an order to Israel, and a judgment by the God of Jacob.
PSA 81:5 He made it a testimony among Joseph, during his coming forth from out of the land of Egypt; a tongue which knew not, he heard.
PSA 81:6 He removed his back from tribute; his hands were enslaved to the hamper.
PSA 81:7 In affliction you called upon me, and I rescued you. I heeded you in the concealed place of the gale; PAUSE. I tried you at Water of Dispute.
PSA 81:8 Hear, O my people! and I will testify to you, O Israel, if you should hear me.
PSA 81:9 There will not be in you a god newly made, nor shall you do obeisance to an alien god.
PSA 81:10 For I am the LORD your God; the one leading you from out of the land of Egypt. Widen your mouth, and I shall fill it!
PSA 81:11 But my people did not hear my voice; and Israel heeded not to me.
PSA 81:12 And I sent them out according to the practices of their hearts; they shall go in their practices.
PSA 81:13 If my people heard me, if Israel were gone by my ways,
PSA 81:14 not the less would I humbled their enemies, and I would have put my hand upon the ones afflicting them.
PSA 81:15 The enemies of the LORD lied to him, and their time will be into the eon.
PSA 81:16 And he fed them of the fat of wheat; and he filled them from out of the rock with honey.
PSA 82:1 A psalm to Asaph. God stood in the congregation of gods; and in the midst of gods he examines.
PSA 82:2 For how long will you judge injustice, and receive persons of sinners?
PSA 82:3 Judge for the orphan, and the poor! Do justice to the humble and needy!
PSA 82:4 Deliver the needy and the poor! rescue him from the hand of the sinner!
PSA 82:5 They knew not, nor perceived; they travel in darkness. All the foundations of the earth shall be shaken.
PSA 82:6 I said, You are gods, and all sons of the highest.
PSA 82:7 But you die as men; and fall as one of the rulers.
PSA 82:8 Rise up, O God, judge the earth! For you shall inherit among all the nations.
PSA 83:1 An ode of a psalm to Asaph. O God, who is likened to you? You should not keep quiet, nor soothe, O God.
PSA 83:2 For behold, your enemies sounded, and the ones detesting you lift their head.
PSA 83:3 Against your people they deal treacherously in design, and they consult against your holy ones.
PSA 83:4 They said, Come, for we should utterly destroy them from out of the nations; for in no way should the name of Israel be remembered any longer.
PSA 83:5 For they consulted in concord together; they ordained a covenant against you;
PSA 83:6 even the tents of the Edomites, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarites;
PSA 83:7 Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the ones dwelling in Tyre;
PSA 83:8 for even also Assyria came together with them; they became an assistance to the sons of Lot. PAUSE.
PSA 83:9 Do to them as to Midian, and to Sisera; as to Jabin, at the rushing stream Kishon!
PSA 83:10 They were utterly destroyed in En-dor. They became as dung for the earth.
PSA 83:11 Make their rulers as Oreb and Zeeb, and Zebah and Zalmunna - all their rulers!
PSA 83:12 Ones who said, We should inherit the sanctuary of God for ourselves?
PSA 83:13 O my God, make them as a whirlwind; as stubble against the face of the wind;
PSA 83:14 as fire which shall burn up a forest; as a flame which incinerates mountains!
PSA 83:15 So shall you pursue them in your gale; and in your anger you shall disturb them.
PSA 83:16 Fill their faces with dishonor! and they shall seek your name, O LORD.
PSA 83:17 Let them be shamed and disturbed into the eon of the eon! And let them feel remorse, and be destroyed!
PSA 83:18 And let them know that the name to you is, the LORD! You alone are highest over all the earth.
PSA 84:1 To the director; a psalm for the wine vats to the sons of Korah. How beloved are your tents, O LORD of the forces.
PSA 84:2 My soul longs after and falters for the courtyards of the LORD. My heart and my flesh exulted over the living God.
PSA 84:3 For even the sparrow finds for himself a house; and the turtle-dove a nest for herself, where she puts her own nestlings - your altars, O LORD of the forces, my king and my God.
PSA 84:4 Blessed are the ones dwelling in your house; into the eons of the eons they shall praise you. PAUSE.
PSA 84:5 Blessed is the man in whom is the assistance to him from you; in his heart he ordained ascending;
PSA 84:6 into the valley of the place of weeping; into the place which he put himself. For even the one establishing law will give a blessing.
PSA 84:7 They shall go from force to force; they shall see the God of gods in Zion.
PSA 84:8 O LORD, the God of the forces, listen to my prayer! Give ear, O God of Jacob! PAUSE.
PSA 84:9 Behold O God our defender, and look into the face of your anointed one.
PSA 84:10 For better is one day in your courtyards than thousands. I would choose to be thrown aside in the house of my God, rather than for me to live among the tents of sinners.
PSA 84:11 For the LORD loves mercy and truth. God shall give favor and glory. The LORD will not deprive good things to the ones going in innocence.
PSA 84:12 O LORD, the God of the forces, blessed is the man hoping upon you.
PSA 85:1 To the director; A psalm to the sons of Korah. You thought well, O LORD, of your land. You returned the captivity of Jacob.
PSA 85:2 You forgave the lawless deeds of your people. You covered all their sins.
PSA 85:3 You rested all of your anger. You turned from the anger of your rage.
PSA 85:4 Turn us, O God of our deliverances, and turn your rage from us!
PSA 85:5 Shall you be provoked to anger against us into the eons? Or shall you extend your anger from generation unto generation?
PSA 85:6 O God, you, in turning towards us, shall enliven us; and your people shall be glad over you.
PSA 85:7 Show to us, O LORD, your mercy! and may you give your deliverance to us.
PSA 85:8 I shall hear what the LORD God shall speak to me; for he shall speak peace unto his people, and unto his sacred ones, and unto the ones turning hearts unto him.
PSA 85:9 Moreover his deliverance is near the ones fearing him; so that his glory may encamp in our land.
PSA 85:10 Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace kissed.
PSA 85:11 Truth arose from out of the land, and righteousness looks through from heaven.
PSA 85:12 For even the LORD shall give graciousness; and our land shall give its fruit.
PSA 85:13 Righteousness shall go forth before him, and he shall place his footsteps in the way.
PSA 86:1 A prayer to David. Lean, O LORD, your ear, and heed me! For I am poor and needy.
PSA 86:2 Guard my soul, for I am sacred! Deliver your servant, O my God, the one hoping upon you.
PSA 86:3 Show mercy on me, O LORD! for to you I will cry out the entire day.
PSA 86:4 Gladden the soul of your servant! for to you I lifted my soul.
PSA 86:5 For you, O LORD, are gracious, and lenient, and full of mercy to all the ones calling upon you.
PSA 86:6 Give ear to, O LORD, my prayer; and take heed to the voice of my supplication!
PSA 86:7 In a day of my affliction I cried out to you, for you heeded me.
PSA 86:8 There is not one likened to you among gods, O LORD; and there is not one likened according to your works.
PSA 86:9 All the nations, as many as you made, shall come and do obeisance before you, O LORD; and they shall glorify your name.
PSA 86:10 For you are great, and performing wonders. You are the only God.
PSA 86:11 Guide me, O LORD, in your way; and I will go in your truth! Let my heart be glad to fear your name!
PSA 86:12 I shall make acknowledgment to you, O LORD my God, with my entire heart; and I will glorify your name into the eon.
PSA 86:13 For your mercy is great towards me; and you rescued my soul from out of lowermost Hades.
PSA 86:14 O God, lawbreakers rose up against me, and a gathering of strong ones sought my life; and they did not set you before them.
PSA 86:15 And you, O LORD my God, are pitying and merciful, lenient and full of mercy, and true.
PSA 86:16 Look upon me, and show mercy on me! Give your might to your child, and deliver the son of your maidservant!
PSA 86:17 Establish with me a sign for good, and let the ones detesting me see, and be ashamed! For you, O LORD, helped me, and comforted me.
PSA 87:1 To the sons of Korah; a psalm of an ode. His foundations are in the holy mountains.
PSA 87:2 The LORD loves the gates of Zion above all the tents of Jacob.
PSA 87:3 Things being glorified are spoken concerning you, O city of God.
PSA 87:4 I shall make mention of Rahab and Babylon to the ones knowing me; and behold, the Philistines, and Tyre, and the people of the Ethiopians; these were there.
PSA 87:5 Mother of Zion, a man shall say, even a man born in her. And the highest himself founded her.
PSA 87:6 The LORD shall describe in the writing of peoples, and of these rulers being born in her. PAUSE.
PSA 87:7 As ones being glad are all dwelling in you.
PSA 88:1 An ode of a psalm to the sons of Korah; for the director; by a harp to respond for contemplation; to Heman the Israelite. O LORD, the God of my deliverance; I cried out before you day and at night.
PSA 88:2 Let my prayer enter before you! Lean your ear to my supplication!
PSA 88:3 For my soul is filled of bad things, and my life approached Hades.
PSA 88:4 I was counted with the ones going down into the pit. I became as an incurable man;
PSA 88:5 free among the dead, as ones slain, sleeping in a tomb, whom you do not remember any longer; and they were thrusted away from out of your hand.
PSA 88:6 They put me in the lowermost pit, in dark places, and in the shadow of death.
PSA 88:7 Upon me your rage stayed, and you brought upon me all your crests. PAUSE.
PSA 88:8 You distanced the ones knowing me from me. You made me an abomination to them. I have been delivered up, and have not gone forth.
PSA 88:9 My eyes are weakened from poorness. I cried out to you, O LORD, the entire day. I opened and spread out to you my hands.
PSA 88:10 Shall you do wonders for the dead? Or shall physicians rise up and make acknowledgment to you?
PSA 88:11 Shall any one in the tomb describe your mercy and your truth in the destruction?
PSA 88:12 Shall your wonders be made known in the darkness? and your righteousness in a land being forgotten?
PSA 88:13 But I cried out to you O LORD; and in the morning my prayer shall be with you beforehand.
PSA 88:14 Why, O LORD, do you thrust away my soul, and turn your face from me?
PSA 88:15 I am poor and in troubles from my youth. But being raised up high I was humbled and left destitute.
PSA 88:16 Upon me your angers went; your frightful things disturbed me.
PSA 88:17 They encircle me as water; the entire day they compassed me together.
PSA 88:18 You put far from me friend and near one, and the ones knowing me, because of misery.
PSA 89:1 A contemplation of Ethan the Ezrahite. I shall sing of your mercies O LORD into the eon. Unto generation and generation I shall report your truth with my mouth.
PSA 89:2 For you said, Into the eon mercy shall be built up. Your truth shall be prepared in the heavens.
PSA 89:3 I ordained a covenant with my chosen ones; I swore by an oath to David my servant.
PSA 89:4 Unto the eon I shall prepare your seed, and I will build your throne unto generation and generation.
PSA 89:5 The heavens shall acknowledge your wonders, O LORD, and your truth in the assembly of holy ones.
PSA 89:6 For who in the clouds shall be equal to the LORD; likened to the LORD among sons of God?
PSA 89:7 God is being glorified in the counsel of holy ones; he is great and fearful over all the ones surrounding him.
PSA 89:8 O LORD, the God of the forces, who is likened to you? You are mighty, O LORD, and your truth is round about you.
PSA 89:9 You are master of the might of the sea; and the tossing about of its waves you soothe.
PSA 89:10 You humbled the proud as slain; with the arm of your might you dispersed your enemies.
PSA 89:11 The heavens are yours, and the earth is yours. The inhabitable world and its fullness you founded.
PSA 89:12 The north and the west you created. Tabor and Hermon shall exult in your name.
PSA 89:13 Your arm is with dominations. Let your hand be fortified! Let your right hand be raised up high!
PSA 89:14 Righteousness and equity are the preparation of your throne. Mercy and truth shall go forth before your face.
PSA 89:15 Blessed are the people knowing the shout of joy, O LORD. They shall go in the light of your face.
PSA 89:16 And in your name they shall exult the entire day; and in your righteousness they shall be raised up high.
PSA 89:17 For you are the boast of their power; and by your benevolence our horn shall be raised up high.
PSA 89:18 For assistance is of the LORD, and of the holy one of Israel, our king.
PSA 89:19 Then you spoke in a vision to your sons, and said, I put help upon a mighty one; raising up high a chosen one from out of my people.
PSA 89:20 I found David my servant; I anointed him with my holy oil.
PSA 89:21 For my hand shall be an aid to him; and my arm shall strengthen him.
PSA 89:22 The enemy shall not derive benefit by him; and the son of lawlessness shall not proceed to inflict evil on him.
PSA 89:23 And I will cut down his enemies from in front of him; and the ones detesting him shall be put to flight.
PSA 89:24 And my truth and my mercy are with him; and in my name his horn shall be raised up high.
PSA 89:25 And I will set his hand in the sea, and his right hand in rivers.
PSA 89:26 He shall call upon me, saying, You are my father, my God, and the shielder of my deliverance.
PSA 89:27 And I will make him first-born, high above the kings of the earth.
PSA 89:28 Into the eon I shall guard to him my mercy; and my covenant is trustworthy to him.
PSA 89:29 And I shall establish his seed into the eon of the eon; and his throne as the days of the heaven.
PSA 89:30 If his sons should abandon my law, and should not go by my judgments;
PSA 89:31 if they should profane my ordinances, and should not keep my commandments;
PSA 89:32 then I will visit their lawlessnesses with a rod, and their iniquities with whips.
PSA 89:33 But my mercy in no way should I efface from them, nor in any way should I wrong in my truth;
PSA 89:34 nor in any way should I profane my covenant; and the things going forth through my lips in no way should I annul.
PSA 89:35 Once I swore by an oath by my holiness; shall I lie to David?
PSA 89:36 His seed shall abide into the eon, and his throne as the sun before me;
PSA 89:37 and as the moon being readied into the eon, and the trustworthy witness in heaven. PAUSE.
PSA 89:38 But you thrusted away and treated with contempt. You raised your anointed one.
PSA 89:39 You eradicated the covenant of your servant. You profaned in the land of his sanctuary.
PSA 89:40 You demolished all his barriers. You made his fortresses dreaded.
PSA 89:41 All the ones traveling through the way plundered him. He became scorn to his neighbors.
PSA 89:42 You raised up high the right hand of the ones afflicting him; you made glad all his enemies.
PSA 89:43 You turned back the help of his broadsword, and did not assist him in the battle.
PSA 89:44 You rested from cleansing him. You broke down his throne unto the ground.
PSA 89:45 You diminished the days of his throne. You poured upon him shame.
PSA 89:46 For how long, O LORD, will you turn away - to the end? Will your anger burn as fire?
PSA 89:47 Remember what my reality is; did you create all the sons of men for acting in folly?
PSA 89:48 Who is the man who shall live and not see death? Shall he rescue his own soul from out of the hand of Hades? PAUSE.
PSA 89:49 Where are your ancient mercies, O LORD, which you swore by an oath to David in your truth?
PSA 89:50 Remember, O LORD, the scorning (of the ones of your servants, of which I underwent in my bosom,) of many nations!
PSA 89:51 Of which your enemies berated, O LORD; of which they berated the equivalent of your anointed one.
PSA 89:52 Blessed be the LORD into the eon. May it be. May it be.
PSA 90:1 A prayer by Moses a man of God. O Lord, you became a refuge for us unto generation and generation.
PSA 90:2 Before the mountain existed, and the earth and inhabitable world took shape, even from the eon and until the eon, you are.
PSA 90:3 You should not return man unto humiliation; whereas you said, Return, O sons of men!
PSA 90:4 For a thousand years in your eyes, O LORD, are as day - yesterday which went, and is as a watch in the night.
PSA 90:5 Years shall be their contempt; may it go by the morning as tender shoots;
PSA 90:6 blooming in the morning, and may it go by; in the evening it shall fall away; may it be hardened and dried up.
PSA 90:7 For we faltered in your anger, and in your rage we were disturbed.
PSA 90:8 You put our lawlessnesses before you; our eon in the illumination of your face.
PSA 90:9 For all our days failed; even in your anger we failed. Our years are as a spider meditating.
PSA 90:10 The days of our years among them are seventy years; but if by commands - eighty years, but much of them toil and misery; for mellowing comes upon us, and we shall be corrected.
PSA 90:11 Who knows the power of your anger, and how to count out his days because of the fear of you of your rage?
PSA 90:12 So make known to me your right hand, and the ones being corrected in the heart by wisdom!
PSA 90:13 Return, O LORD! For how long? And give comfort unto your servants!
PSA 90:14 We were filled up in the morning of your mercy, O LORD; and we exulted and were glad in all our days.
PSA 90:15 We were gladdened because of the days you humbled us; years which we beheld bad things.
PSA 90:16 And look upon your servants, and upon your works, and guide their sons!
PSA 90:17 And let the brightness of the LORD our God be upon us! And prosper for us the works of our hands; yes, prosper the work of our hands!
PSA 91:1 A praise of an ode to David. The one dwelling in the help of the highest shall lodge in the protection of the God of the heaven.
PSA 91:2 He shall say to the LORD, You are my shielder, and my refuge; my God, and I will hope upon him.
PSA 91:3 For he shall rescue you from out of the snare of hunters, from a disturbing matter.
PSA 91:4 With his upper back he shall overshadow you, and under his wings you shall hope. He shall encircle you with the shield of his truth.
PSA 91:5 You shall not be afraid from nightly fear; nor from an arrow flying by day;
PSA 91:6 nor from a thing going along in darkness; nor from an adverse incident; and the demon at midday.
PSA 91:7 A thousand shall fall at your side, and myriads at your right hand; but it shall not approach unto you.
PSA 91:8 Only with your eyes you shall contemplate and see the recompense of sinners.
PSA 91:9 For you, O LORD, are the one of my hope; you made the highest your refuge.
PSA 91:10 There shall not come near to you bad things; and the whip shall not approach in your tent.
PSA 91:11 For to his angels he gives charge concerning you, to guard you in all your ways.
PSA 91:12 By hands they will lift you, lest at any time you should stumble your foot against a stone.
PSA 91:13 You shall set foot upon the asp and cobra; and you shall trample on the lion and dragon.
PSA 91:14 For he hoped upon me, and I shall rescue him. I will shelter him, for he knew my name.
PSA 91:15 He shall cry out to me, and I shall heed him. I am with him in affliction. I will rescue him and glorify him.
PSA 91:16 I will fill him with duration of days, and I will show to him my deliverance.
PSA 92:1 A psalm of an ode for the day of the Sabbath. Good is the making acknowledgment to the LORD, and to strum to your name, the highest;
PSA 92:2 to announce in the morning of your mercy, and of your truth at night,
PSA 92:3 on the ten-stringed psaltery, with an ode on the harp.
PSA 92:4 For you gladdened me, O LORD, by your action; and in the works of your hands I shall exult.
PSA 92:5 How your works were magnified, O LORD; your thoughts deepen exceedingly.
PSA 92:6 A foolish man will not know, and the senseless shall not perceive these things.
PSA 92:7 In the rising up of the sinners as grass, and all the ones working lawlessness look on; that thus they shall be utterly destroyed into the eon of the eon.
PSA 92:8 But you are the highest into the eon, O LORD.
PSA 92:9 For behold, your enemies, O LORD; for behold, your enemies shall perish, and all the ones working lawlessness shall be dispersed.
PSA 92:10 And my horn shall be raised up high as a unicorn; and my old age with plentiful oil.
PSA 92:11 And my eye looked on my enemies, and my ear shall hear the ones acting wickedly among the ones rising up against me.
PSA 92:12 The just one shall bloom as a palm tree; as a cedar in Lebanon he shall be multiplied.
PSA 92:13 The ones being planted in the house of the LORD, in the courtyards of our God, shall blossom.
PSA 92:14 Still they shall be multiplied in plentiful old age; and they will be enjoying pleasure to announce
PSA 92:15 that the LORD our God is upright, and there is not an injustice in him.
PSA 93:1 For the day before the Sabbath; when the land was settled; praise of an ode to David. The LORD reigned; he put on beauty; the LORD put on power, and girded himself; for even he solidified the inhabitable world, which shall not be shaken.
PSA 93:2 Your throne was prepared from then; from the eon you are.
PSA 93:3 The rivers lifted up, O LORD, the rivers lifted up their voices.
PSA 93:4 The rivers shall take away; you shall wear them away by sounds of many waters. The crests of the sea are wonderful; the LORD is wonderful in high places.
PSA 93:5 Your testimonies are trustworthy - exceedingly. Sanctification is becoming to your house, O LORD, for a duration of days.
PSA 94:1 A psalm to David; fourth of Sabbath. The God of acts of vengeance. The LORD God of acts of vengeance spoke openly.
PSA 94:2 Rise up high, O one judging the earth! Render recompense to the proud!
PSA 94:3 For how long sinners, O LORD, how long shall sinners boast?
PSA 94:4 They will utter and speak injustice; all the ones practicing iniquity shall speak.
PSA 94:5 Your people, O LORD, they humbled, and inflicted evil on your inheritance.
PSA 94:6 The widow and orphan they killed; and the foreigner they murdered.
PSA 94:7 And they said, the LORD shall not see, nor shall the God of Jacob perceive.
PSA 94:8 Perceive indeed, O foolish ones among the people and moronish! Think at some time or other!
PSA 94:9 The one planting the ear, does he not hear? or the one shaping the eye, does he not contemplate?
PSA 94:10 The one correcting nations, shall he not reprove? The one teaching man knowledge.
PSA 94:11 The LORD, knows the thoughts of men, that they are vain.
PSA 94:12 Blessed is a man whom ever you should correct, O LORD, and from out of your law you should teach him;
PSA 94:13 to calm him from evil days, until of which time he should have dug the pit for the sinner.
PSA 94:14 For the LORD shall not thrust away his people, and shall not abandon his inheritance;
PSA 94:15 until of which righteousness returns for judgment, and having it are all the straight in the heart. PAUSE.
PSA 94:16 Who shall rise up to me against the ones acting wickedly? Or who shall stand up with me against the ones working lawlessness?
PSA 94:17 Unless that the LORD helped me, my soul would shortly have sojourned in Hades.
PSA 94:18 If I said, My foot shakes - your mercy, O LORD, helps me.
PSA 94:19 According to the multitude of my griefs in my heart, so your comforts made glad my soul.
PSA 94:20 Shall the throne of lawlessness adhere with you, the one shaping trouble out of order?
PSA 94:21 They shall hunt for a just soul, and they shall condemn innocent blood.
PSA 94:22 But the LORD became to me for a refuge; and my God for a helper of my hope.
PSA 94:23 And he shall recompense to them their lawlessness; and according to their wickedness The LORD God shall remove them from view.
PSA 95:1 A praise of an ode to David. Come, we should make exultation to the LORD; we should shout to God our deliverer.
PSA 95:2 We should go before his presence with acknowledgment, and by psalms we should sound aloud to him.
PSA 95:3 For the LORD is a great God, and a great king above all the earth.
PSA 95:4 For in his hand are the ends of the earth; and the heights of the mountains are his.
PSA 95:5 For of him is the sea, and he made it; and his hands shaped the dry land.
PSA 95:6 Come, we should do obeisance, and fall before him; and weep before the LORD, the one making us.
PSA 95:7 For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you should hear his voice,
PSA 95:8 you should not harden your hearts as in the embittering, according to the day of the test in the wilderness,
PSA 95:9 of which your fathers tested me; they tried me, and they beheld my works.
PSA 95:10 Forty years I loathed that generation, and said, They continually wander in the heart, and they do not know my ways.
PSA 95:11 So I swore by an oath in my anger, Shall they enter into my rest?
PSA 96:1 When the house was built after the captivity; an ode to David. Sing to the LORD a new song! Sing to the LORD all the earth!
PSA 96:2 Sing to the LORD! Bless his name! Announce good news day by day of his deliverance!
PSA 96:3 Announce among the nations of his glory, and among all the peoples of his wonders!
PSA 96:4 For great is the LORD, and praiseworthy - exceedingly. He is fearful above all the gods.
PSA 96:5 For all the gods of the nations are demons; but the LORD made the heavens.
PSA 96:6 Acknowledgment and beauty are before him; holiness and majesty are in his sanctuary.
PSA 96:7 Bring to the LORD, O families of the nations! Bring to the LORD glory and honor!
PSA 96:8 Bring to the LORD glory of his name! Carry sacrifices, and enter into his courtyards!
PSA 96:9 Do obeisance to the LORD in his holy courtyard! Let all the earth shake before his face!
PSA 96:10 Say among the nations that, The LORD reigns! For even he set up the inhabitable world which will not be shaken. He shall judge peoples in straightness.
PSA 96:11 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth exult! Let the sea be shaken, and the fullness of it!
PSA 96:12 The plains shall rejoice, and all the things in them. Then all the trees of the forest shall exult
PSA 96:13 from the face of the LORD, for he comes; for he comes to judge the earth. He shall judge the inhabitable world in righteousness, and peoples in his truth.
PSA 97:1 A psalm to David; when his land is established. The LORD reigned. Exult, O earth! Let many islands be glad!
PSA 97:2 There is a cloud and dimness round about him; righteousness and judgment are the success of his throne.
PSA 97:3 Fire shall go forth before him, and it shall blaze round about his enemies.
PSA 97:4 His lightnings appeared to the inhabitable world; the earth beheld and shook.
PSA 97:5 The mountains melted away as beeswax from the face of the LORD; from the face of the LORD of all the earth.
PSA 97:6 The heavens announced his righteousness, and all the peoples beheld his glory.
PSA 97:7 All the ones doing obeisance to the carvings were shamed - the ones boasting in their idols. Let all his angels do obeisance to him!
PSA 97:8 Zion heard and was glad; and the daughters of Judea exulted because of your judgments, O LORD.
PSA 97:9 For you, the LORD, are highest over all the earth - exceedingly. You were greatly exalted above all the gods.
PSA 97:10 The ones loving the LORD detest evil. The LORD guards the souls of his sacred ones; from out of the hand of the sinner he shall rescue them.
PSA 97:11 Light arose to the just one, and gladness to the straight in the heart.
PSA 97:12 The just ones should be glad in the LORD, and make acknowledgment to the remembrance of his holiness.
PSA 98:1 A psalm to David. Sing to the LORD a new song! For the LORD did wonderful things. He delivered him by his right hand, and his holy arm.
PSA 98:2 The LORD made known his deliverance; before the nations he revealed his righteousness.
PSA 98:3 He remembered his mercy to Jacob, and his truth to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth beheld the deliverance of our God.
PSA 98:4 Shout to God all the earth! Sing and exult and strum!
PSA 98:5 Strum to the LORD with a harp; with a harp and voice of a psalm!
PSA 98:6 With hammered metal trumpets, and the sound of the trumpet of the horn, shout before the king of the LORD!
PSA 98:7 Let the sea shake, and the fullness of it; the inhabitable world, and all the ones dwelling in it!
PSA 98:8 Rivers shall clap hand together. The mountains shall exult from the face of the LORD, for he comes.
PSA 98:9 For he comes to judge the earth. He shall judge the inhabitable world in righteousness, and peoples in straightness.
PSA 99:1 A psalm to David. The LORD reigned. Let peoples be angry! He is the one sitting upon the cherubim. Let the earth be shaken!
PSA 99:2 The LORD is great in Zion, and is high above all the peoples.
PSA 99:3 Let them make acknowledgement to your great name! For he is fearful and holy.
PSA 99:4 And the honor of the king loves equity. You prepared straightness for judgment; and you established righteousness in Jacob.
PSA 99:5 Raise up high the LORD our God, and do obeisance at the footstool of his feet! For he is holy.
PSA 99:6 Moses and Aaron are among his priests, and Samuel is among the ones calling upon his name. They called upon the LORD, and he listened to them.
PSA 99:7 In a column of cloud he spoke to them; for they guarded his testimony, and his orders which he gave to them.
PSA 99:8 O LORD our God, you heeded them. O God, you became propitious to them, yet punishing over all their practices.
PSA 99:9 Raise up high the LORD our God, and do obeisance at his holy mountain! For the LORD our God is holy.
PSA 100:1 A psalm to David; for acknowledgment. Shout to God all the earth!
PSA 100:2 Give service to the LORD with gladness! Enter his presence with exultation!
PSA 100:3 Know that the LORD, he is our God! He made us, and not we. But we are his people, and sheep of his pasture.
PSA 100:4 Enter into his gates with acknowledgment, into his courtyards with hymns! Make acknowledgment to him! Praise his name!
PSA 100:5 For the LORD is gracious; his mercy is into the eon, and his truth unto generation and generation.
PSA 101:1 A psalm to David. Mercy and judgment I shall sing to you, O LORD.
PSA 101:2 I shall strum, and I shall perceive in an unblemished way. When shall you come to me? I traveled in the innocence of my heart; in the midst of my house.
PSA 101:3 I did not set before my eyes an illegal thing; I detested ones committing violations.
PSA 101:4 A crooked heart cleaved not to me; turning aside from me was the wicked man I knew not.
PSA 101:5 The one speaking ill in private of the ones near him - this one I drove out. Proud eye and insatiable heart; with this one I ate not.
PSA 101:6 My eyes are upon the trustworthy of the land, for them to sit together with me, going in an unblemished way; this one officiated to me.
PSA 101:7 one having pride dwelt not in the midst of my house. One speaking unjust did not conduct anything before my eyes.
PSA 101:8 Into the morning I killed all the sinners of the land; to utterly destroy from out of the city of the LORD all the ones practicing lawlessness.
PSA 102:1 A prayer to the poor whenever he is discouraged, and he should pour out his supplication before the LORD. O LORD, listen to my prayer, and let my cry come unto you!
PSA 102:2 You should not turn your face from me in which ever day I should be afflicted. Lean to me your ear in which ever day I should call upon you! Quickly heed me!
PSA 102:3 For my days dissipated as smoke, and my bones are parched as dried sticks.
PSA 102:4 My heart is struck down as grass and is dried up, so that I forgot to eat my bread.
PSA 102:5 From the sound of my moaning my bone cleaves to my flesh.
PSA 102:6 I became like a solitary pelican; I became as the long-eared owl in its area.
PSA 102:7 I was sleepless, and I became as a sparrow living alone upon a roof.
PSA 102:8 All the day my enemies berated me, and the ones praising me swore an oath against me.
PSA 102:9 For I ate ashes as bread, and my drink is being diluted with weeping;
PSA 102:10 because of the face of your anger, and of your rage; for having lifted me up, you broke me down.
PSA 102:11 My days declined as a shadow, and I as grass am dried up.
PSA 102:12 But you, O LORD, abide into the eon, and your memorial unto generation and generation.
PSA 102:13 In your rising up you shall pity Zion; for it is time to pity it, for the time comes.
PSA 102:14 For your servants thought well of her stones, and shall pity her dust.
PSA 102:15 And the nations shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth your glory.
PSA 102:16 For the LORD shall build up Zion, and he shall appear in his glory.
PSA 102:17 He looked upon the prayer of the humble, and did not treat their supplication with contempt.
PSA 102:18 Let this be written for another generation, and the people being created shall praise the LORD!
PSA 102:19 For he looked out from the height of his holy place. The LORD looked from out of heaven upon the earth,
PSA 102:20 to hear the moaning of the ones being shackled, to untie the sons of the ones being killed,
PSA 102:21 to announce in Zion the name of the LORD, and his praise in Jerusalem,
PSA 102:22 in the assembling of peoples together, and kings to serve to the LORD.
PSA 102:23 It shall be answered by him in the way of his strength; he announced to me the fewness of my days.
PSA 102:24 You should not lead me away in half of my days; your years are in generation of generations.
PSA 102:25 At the beginning, you, O LORD, laid a foundation for the earth; and the works of your hands are the heavens.
PSA 102:26 They shall perish, but you shall abide. And all as a garment shall become old; and as a wrap-around garment you shall coil them, and they shall be changed.
PSA 102:27 But you are the same, and your years shall not cease.
PSA 102:28 The sons of your servants shall encamp, and their seed shall conduct matters into the eon.
PSA 103:1 A psalm to David. Bless the LORD O my soul, and all the things within me, bless his holy name!
PSA 103:2 Bless the LORD O my soul, and forget not all his recompenses!
PSA 103:3 the one propitiating all your lawlessnesses; the one healing all your diseases;
PSA 103:4 the one ransoming your life from out of corruption; the one crowning you with mercy and compassions;
PSA 103:5 the one filling your desire with good things; so that your youth shall be renewed as an eagle.
PSA 103:6 The one doing charity is the LORD, and judgment to all the ones having been wronged.
PSA 103:7 He made known his ways to Moses; to the sons of Israel his wants.
PSA 103:8 Pitying and merciful is the LORD; lenient and full of mercy.
PSA 103:9 Not unto the end shall he be provoked to anger, nor into the eon will he be infuriated.
PSA 103:10 Not according to our lawless deeds did he deal with us; nor according to our sins did he recompense to us.
PSA 103:11 For as the height of the heaven from the earth, so the LORD fortified his mercy upon the ones fearing him.
PSA 103:12 According to as much as the distance eastwards from westwards, so he set afar from us our lawlessnesses.
PSA 103:13 As a father pities his sons, so the LORD pities the ones fearing him.
PSA 103:14 For he knew our shape; he remembered that we are dust.
PSA 103:15 Man, is as grass; his days are as a flower of the field, so he shall blossom.
PSA 103:16 For as wind goes by him, and he exists not; so also he shall not recognize his place any longer.
PSA 103:17 But the mercy of the LORD from the eon, and unto the eon, is upon the ones fearing him. And his righteousness is upon sons of sons;
PSA 103:18 to the ones guarding his covenant, and remembering his commandments to observe them.
PSA 103:19 The LORD prepared his throne in the heaven, and he is master of all his kingdom.
PSA 103:20 Bless the LORD all you his angels, mighty in strength, executing his word, to hearken to the sound of his words!
PSA 103:21 Bless the LORD, all you his forces; his ministers performing his will!
PSA 103:22 Bless the LORD, all you his works, in every place of his dominion! Bless the LORD O my soul!
PSA 104:1 A psalm to David. Bless the LORD O my soul! O LORD my God, you are magnified exceedingly; you clothed yourself with acknowledgment and majesty;
PSA 104:2 cloaking on light as a garment; stretching out the heaven as a hide covering;
PSA 104:3 roofing his upper rooms with waters; placing clouds for his step; the one walking upon the wings of the winds;
PSA 104:4 the one making his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire;
PSA 104:5 the one laying the foundation for the earth in its stability (it shall not lean into the eon of the eon);
PSA 104:6 the deep as a garment of his wrap. Upon the mountains waters shall stand.
PSA 104:7 From your reproach they shall flee; from the sound of your thunder they shall show timidity;
PSA 104:8 they ascend the mountains, and go down to the plains, to a place where you laid a foundation for them.
PSA 104:9 You placed a limit which they shall not pass, nor shall they return to cover the earth.
PSA 104:10 The one sending out springs in ravines; waters shall go through in the midst of the mountains;
PSA 104:11 they shall water all the wild beasts of the field; wild donkeys shall receive it for their thirst;
PSA 104:12 by them the winged creatures of the heaven shall encamp; from between the rocks they shall give out a sound;
PSA 104:13 watering mountains from out of his upper rooms. By the fruit of your works the earth shall be filled.
PSA 104:14 The one causing grass to rise up to the cattle, and tender shoots to the service of the men, to bring bread from the earth;
PSA 104:15 (and wine makes glad the heart of man;) to make his face happy with olive oil; (and bread supports the heart of man.)
PSA 104:16 The woods of the plain shall be filled; the cedars of Lebanon which you planted.
PSA 104:17 There the sparrows will nest; the dwelling of the heron takes lead over them.
PSA 104:18 The high mountains are for the stags; a rock of refuge for the hyrax.
PSA 104:19 He made the moon for seasons; the sun knows his setting.
PSA 104:20 You made darkness, and night happened; all the wild beasts of the forest go in it;
PSA 104:21 lion cubs roaring to seize by force, and seeking from God food for themselves;
PSA 104:22 the sun arose, and they were brought together; and in their lairs they shall lay down.
PSA 104:23 Man shall go forth unto his work, even unto his work until evening.
PSA 104:24 How your works were magnified, O LORD. You created all in wisdom. The earth was filled of your creation;
PSA 104:25 this great sea and broad space; located there are reptiles which there is not a count; living creatures small with the great.
PSA 104:26 There boats travel over; this dragon whom you shaped to sport in it.
PSA 104:27 All expect from you to give them nourishment in an opportune time.
PSA 104:28 At your giving to them, they shall collect; opening your hand all things shall be filled by that which is good.
PSA 104:29 But at the turning of your face they shall be disturbed. You shall take away in return their spirit., and they shall fail, and unto their dust they shall return.
PSA 104:30 You shall send out your spirit, and they shall be created. And you shall renew the face of the earth.
PSA 104:31 Let the glory of the LORD be into the eons! The LORD shall be glad over his works;
PSA 104:32 the one looking upon the earth, and making it to tremble; the one touching the mountains, and they smoke.
PSA 104:33 I shall sing to the LORD in my life. I shall strum to my God while I exist.
PSA 104:34 Let my versification be delicious to him, then I shall be glad in the LORD.
PSA 104:35 Sinners failed from the earth, and lawless ones so as for them to not exist. Bless the LORD O my soul!
PSA 105:1 Alleluiah. Make acknowledgment to the LORD, and call upon his name! Report among the nations of his works!
PSA 105:2 Sing to him, and strum to him! Describe all his wonders!
PSA 105:3 Applaud in his holy name! Let the heart seeking the LORD be glad!
PSA 105:4 Seek the LORD, and be fortified! Seek his face always!
PSA 105:5 You should remember his wonders of which he did; his miracles, and the judgments of his mouth;
PSA 105:6 O seed of Abraham his servants; sons of Jacob his chosen.
PSA 105:7 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
PSA 105:8 He remembered his covenant into the eon; the word which he gave charge for a thousand generations;
PSA 105:9 which covenant he ordained to Abraham, and his oath to Isaac;
PSA 105:10 and established it to Jacob for an order, and to Israel for an eternal covenant,
PSA 105:11 saying, To you I give the land of Canaan, a piece of measured out land for your inheritance;
PSA 105:12 in their being few in number, very few, and sojourners in it;
PSA 105:13 and they went from nation to nation, and from a kingdom to another people;
PSA 105:14 he did not let a man wrong them, and he reproved kings for them, saying,
PSA 105:15 Do not touch my anointed ones, and among my prophets do not do wickedly!
PSA 105:16 And he called famine upon the land; he broke all reliance on bread.
PSA 105:17 He sent in front of them a man; Joseph was sold for a servant.
PSA 105:18 They humbled his feet with shackles; his soul went through iron;
PSA 105:19 until his word came; the oracle of the LORD purified him.
PSA 105:20 The king sent and untied him, even a ruler of the people, and let him go.
PSA 105:21 He placed him as master of his house, and ruler of all his possessions;
PSA 105:22 to instruct his rulers as he himself, and to make his elders wise.
PSA 105:23 And Israel entered into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
PSA 105:24 And his people grew exceedingly; and he fortified it above his enemies.
PSA 105:25 He converted his heart to detest his people; to use deceit with his servants.
PSA 105:26 He sent out Moses his servant; Aaron whom he chose for himself.
PSA 105:27 He put among them the matters of his signs, and of his miracles in the land of Ham.
PSA 105:28 He sent out darkness, and it darkened; and they rebelled against his words.
PSA 105:29 He converted their waters into blood, and killed their fishes.
PSA 105:30 Frogs crept forth in their land, in the closets of their kings.
PSA 105:31 He spoke, and came the dog-fly, and midges in all their borders.
PSA 105:32 He made their rains into hail, and fire burning up in their land.
PSA 105:33 And he struck their grapevines, and their fig-trees; and he broke every tree of their border.
PSA 105:34 He spoke, and came the locust, and grasshopper, of which there was not a number.
PSA 105:35 And they devoured all the grass in their land, and devoured the fruit of their land.
PSA 105:36 And he struck every first-born in their land, first-fruit of all their toil.
PSA 105:37 And he led them out with silver and gold; and there was not one among their tribes being weak.
PSA 105:38 Egypt was glad in their exodus; for the fear of them fell upon them.
PSA 105:39 He opened and spread out a cloud for their protection; and fire to give light to them at night.
PSA 105:40 They asked for, and the mother-quail came, and the bread of heaven filled them.
PSA 105:41 He tore open the rock, and waters flowed; rivers went to waterless places.
PSA 105:42 For he remembered his holy word to Abraham his servant.
PSA 105:43 And he led out his people in exultation, and his chosen ones in gladness.
PSA 105:44 And he gave to them the places of nations, and produce of the toils of peoples that they inherited;
PSA 105:45 so that they should guard his ordinances, and seek after his law.
PSA 106:1 Alleluiah Make acknowledgment to the LORD, for he is gracious; for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 106:2 Who shall speak the mighty deeds of the LORD? Audibly, who shall offer all his praises?
PSA 106:3 Blessed are the ones keeping equity, and doing righteousness in every season.
PSA 106:4 Remember us, O LORD, with the benevolence of your people! Visit us with your deliverance!
PSA 106:5 to behold in the thing gracious of your chosen ones; to be glad in the gladness of your nation; to applaud with your inheritance.
PSA 106:6 We sinned with our fathers; we acted lawlessly; we did wrong.
PSA 106:7 Our fathers in Egypt perceived not your wonders; they remembered not the magnitude of your mercy; and they rebelled while ascending unto the red sea.
PSA 106:8 And he delivered them because of his name, for the making known his might.
PSA 106:9 And he reproached the red sea, and it was dried up. And he guided them in the deep, as in the wilderness.
PSA 106:10 And he delivered them out of the hand of the one detesting; and he ransomed them out of the hand of enemies.
PSA 106:11 Water covered the ones afflicting them; not one of them was left.
PSA 106:12 And they trusted in his word; and they were his praise.
PSA 106:13 They hastened; they forgot his works; they waited not for his counsel.
PSA 106:14 And they desired with desire in the wilderness; and they tested God in a waterless place.
PSA 106:15 And he gave them their request; he sent fullness unto their souls.
PSA 106:16 And they provoked Moses to anger in the camp, and Aaron the holy one of the LORD.
PSA 106:17 The earth opened and swallowed down Dathan, and covered over upon the congregation of Abiram.
PSA 106:18 And fire was kindled in their congregation; a flame burnt up sinners.
PSA 106:19 And they made a calf in Horeb; and did obeisance to the carving.
PSA 106:20 And they changed their glory into a representation of a calf eating grass.
PSA 106:21 And they forgot the God delivering them, the one doing great things in Egypt;
PSA 106:22 wonders in the land of Ham; fearful things at the red sea.
PSA 106:23 And he spoke to utterly destroy them, except Moses his chosen one stood among the devastation before him, to turn his rage to not utterly destroy them.
PSA 106:24 And they treated the desirable land with contempt; they trusted not in his word.
PSA 106:25 And they grumbled in their tents; they listened not to the voice of the LORD.
PSA 106:26 And he lifted up his hand against them, to throw them down into the wilderness;
PSA 106:27 and to throw down their seed into the nations, and to disperse them in the places.
PSA 106:28 And they were initiated to Baal-peor, and they ate sacrifices of the dead.
PSA 106:29 And they provoked him in their practices; and the blow was multiplied among them.
PSA 106:30 And Phinehas stood and made atonement, and the devastation was abated.
PSA 106:31 And it was imputed to him for righteousness, for generation and generation, unto the eon.
PSA 106:32 And they provoked him to anger at Water of Dispute; and evil was inflicted upon Moses because of them;
PSA 106:33 for they greatly embittered his spirit, and he drew apart with his lips.
PSA 106:34 They did not utterly destroy the nations which the LORD told to them;
PSA 106:35 and they mixed among the nations, and learned their works.
PSA 106:36 And they served their carvings, and it became to them for a cause of offence.
PSA 106:37 And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons;
PSA 106:38 and poured out innocent blood - blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the carvings of Canaan. And the land was polluted with murder by their blood;
PSA 106:39 and was defiled by their works. And they committed harlotry by their practices.
PSA 106:40 And the LORD was provoked to anger in rage against his people; and he abhorred his inheritance.
PSA 106:41 And he delivered them into the hands of enemies; and the ones detesting them dominated them.
PSA 106:42 And their enemies afflicted them, and they were humbled under their hands.
PSA 106:43 Many times he rescued them; but they greatly embittered him by their counsel, and they were humbled in their lawless deeds.
PSA 106:44 And the LORD beheld in their being afflicted, while at the same time listening to their supplication.
PSA 106:45 And he remembered his covenant, and repented according to the magnitude of his mercy.
PSA 106:46 And he gave them over for compassions before all the ones having captured them.
PSA 106:47 Deliver us, O LORD our God, and assemble us from out of the nations, to acknowledge your holy name; to boast in your praise!
PSA 106:48 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, from the eon and unto the eon. And all the people shall say, May it be. May it be.
PSA 107:1 Alleluiah. Make acknowledgment to the LORD, for he is gracious; for his mercy is into the eon!
PSA 107:2 Let the ones having been ransomed by the LORD speak, whom he ransomed from out of the hand of the enemy!
PSA 107:3 And from out of the places he gathered them, from the east, and west, and north, and the sea.
PSA 107:4 They wandered in the wilderness in a waterless way; they did not find a city for a home.
PSA 107:5 Hungering and thirsting, their soul failed in them.
PSA 107:6 And they cried out to the LORD in their being afflicted, and from their distresses he rescued them.
PSA 107:7 And he guided them in the straight way, to go into a city of habitation.
PSA 107:8 Let them make acknowledgment to the LORD of his mercies, and of his wonders to the sons of men!
PSA 107:9 For he fills the empty soul, and the soul hungering he filled up with good things;
PSA 107:10 even the ones sitting down in darkness and the shadow of death, being shackled in poorness and in iron;
PSA 107:11 for they rebelled against the oracles of God, and the counsel of the highest they provoked.
PSA 107:12 And their heart was humbled with troubles; they weakened, and there was not one helping.
PSA 107:13 And they cried out to the LORD in their being afflicted; and from out of their distresses he delivered them.
PSA 107:14 And he led them from out of darkness and the shadow of death, and tore up their bonds.
PSA 107:15 Let them make acknowledgment to the LORD of his mercies, and his wonders to the sons of men!
PSA 107:16 For he broke the gates of brass; and the bars of iron he fractured in pieces.
PSA 107:17 He took hold of them from out of the way of their lawlessnesses; for on account of their lawlessnesses they were humbled.
PSA 107:18 Their soul abhorred every food, and they approached unto the gates of death.
PSA 107:19 And they cried out to the LORD in their being afflicted, and he delivered them from out of their distresses.
PSA 107:20 He sent his word and healed them; and he rescued them from out of their corruptions.
PSA 107:21 Let them make acknowledgment to the LORD of his mercies; and his wonders to the sons of men!
PSA 107:22 And let them sacrifice to him a sacrifice of praise! And let them declare his works in exultation!
PSA 107:23 The men going down into the sea in boats, doing work in many waters;
PSA 107:24 these men beheld the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.
PSA 107:25 He spoke, and the gale wind is established, and its waves are raised up high.
PSA 107:26 They ascend unto the heavens, and they go down unto the abysses; their soul melts away in evil things.
PSA 107:27 They were disturbed; they were shaken as the one being intoxicated; and all their wisdom was swallowed down.
PSA 107:28 And they cry out to the LORD in their being afflicted, and he leads them from out of their distresses.
PSA 107:29 And he gave orders to the gale, and it stood as a breeze, and its waves were quiet.
PSA 107:30 And they were glad for they were stilled; and he guided them unto the harbor of their want.
PSA 107:31 Let them make acknowledgment to the LORD of his mercies, and his wonders to the sons of men!
PSA 107:32 Let them exalt him in the assembly of people, and let them praise him in the chair of the elders!
PSA 107:33 He put rivers into a wilderness, and outlets of waters into a thirsty ground;
PSA 107:34 a ground bearing fruit into brine, from evil of the ones dwelling in it.
PSA 107:35 He made a wilderness into lakes of waters; and a waterless ground into outlets of waters.
PSA 107:36 And he settled there ones hungering, and they stood together cities of habitation.
PSA 107:37 And they sow fields, and plant vineyards, and make fruit of produce.
PSA 107:38 And he blessed them, and they were multiplied exceedingly, and he diminished not their cattle.
PSA 107:39 And they were made few and were maltreated by affliction of evil things and grief.
PSA 107:40 Contempt was poured out upon their rulers, and he wandered them in an untrodden place, and not on a street.
PSA 107:41 But he helps the needy from out of poorness, and he made families as flocks.
PSA 107:42 The upright shall see and be glad; and all lawlessness shall obstruct its mouth.
PSA 107:43 Who is a wise one and will guard these things, and perceive the mercies of the LORD?
PSA 108:1 Ode of a psalm to David. My heart is prepared, O God, my heart is prepared. I shall sing and strum in my glory.
PSA 108:2 Awake, O my glory! Awake, psaltery and harp! I will be awakened at dawn.
PSA 108:3 I will make acknowledgment to you among peoples, O LORD; I shall strum to you among nations.
PSA 108:4 For great above the heavens is your mercy; and unto the clouds is your truth.
PSA 108:5 Be raised up high above the heavens, O God; and above all the earth with your glory!
PSA 108:6 so that your beloved should be rescued. Deliver with your right hand, and heed me!
PSA 108:7 God spoke in his holy place; I shall be raised up high, and I shall divide Shechem into parts, and the valley of the tents I will measure out.
PSA 108:8 Mine is Gilead; and mine is Manasseh; and Ephraim is the assistance of my head;
PSA 108:9 Judah is my king; Moab the kettle of my hope; upon Edom I will put my sandal; the Philistines are submitted to me.
PSA 108:10 Who shall take me away into a city of a citadel? or who shall guide me to Edom?
PSA 108:11 Is it not you, O God, the one thrusting us away? And will you not go forth, O God, with our forces?
PSA 108:12 Give to us help from out of affliction, for deliverance of man is vain!
PSA 108:13 In God we shall execute power, and he shall treat our enemies with contempt.
PSA 109:1 To the director; a psalm to David. O God of my praise, you should not remain silent;
PSA 109:2 for the mouth of the sinner, and the mouth of the deceitful one opened against me; they spoke against me with a deceitful tongue;
PSA 109:3 and with words of hatred they encircled me; and they waged war against me without charge.
PSA 109:4 Instead of the loving me, they slandered me; but I prayed.
PSA 109:5 And they placed against me bad things for good things, and hatred for my affection.
PSA 109:6 Place the sinner against him, and let the devil stand at his right hand!
PSA 109:7 In his being judged, may he go forth having been condemned; and let his prayer become as sin!
PSA 109:8 Let his days become few; and may another take his overseeing!
PSA 109:9 Let his sons become orphans, and his wife a widow!
PSA 109:10 In being shaken, let his sons change residence, and let them beg! Let them be cast out from their areas!
PSA 109:11 Let the money-lender search out all as much as exists to him; and let strangers plunder his toils!
PSA 109:12 Let there not exist to him a shielder; nor let there be one pitying his orphans!
PSA 109:13 Let his children be given for devastation! In one generation let his name be wiped away!
PSA 109:14 May the lawlessness of his fathers be called to mind before the LORD; and may the sin of his mother not be wiped away.
PSA 109:15 Let them be before the LORD always! And may their memorial be utterly destroyed from the land.
PSA 109:16 Because he did not remember to perform mercy, but pursued a needy and poor man, and vexing the heart to kill him.
PSA 109:17 And he loved a curse, and it shall come to him; and he did not want a blessing, and it shall be far from him.
PSA 109:18 And he put on the curse as a cloak, and it entered as water into his insides, and as oil in his bones.
PSA 109:19 Let it be to him as a cloak which he puts around, and as a belt which he always girds himself!
PSA 109:20 This is the work of the ones slandering me by the LORD, and the ones speaking evil against my soul.
PSA 109:21 And you, O LORD, O Lord, deal with me because of your name; for your mercy is gracious!
PSA 109:22 Rescue me, for I am poor and needy, and my heart is disturbed within me!
PSA 109:23 As shade in its turning aside, I was taken away in return; I was shaken away as locusts.
PSA 109:24 My knees weakened from fasting; and my flesh was changed through want of oil.
PSA 109:25 And I became scorn to them. They beheld me, they shook their heads.
PSA 109:26 Help me, O LORD my God, and deliver me according to your mercy!
PSA 109:27 And let them know that this is your hand; and you, O LORD, did it!
PSA 109:28 They shall curse themselves, but you shall bless. The ones rising up against me, let them be ashamed! but your servant shall be glad.
PSA 109:29 Let the ones slandering me put on shame, and let them put their shame around as a garment!
PSA 109:30 I will make acknowledgment to the LORD - exceedingly. With my mouth and in the midst of many I will praise him.
PSA 109:31 For he stands at the right hand of the needy, to deliver from the ones pursuing my soul.
PSA 110:1 A psalm to David. The LORD said to my Lord, Sit down at my right hand until whenever I should make your enemies a footstool for your feet!
PSA 110:2 The LORD shall send out to you a rod of power from out of Zion; and you dominate in the midst of your enemies!
PSA 110:3 With you is the sovereignty in the day of your power, with the brightness of your holy ones. From out of the womb before the morning star I engendered you.
PSA 110:4 The LORD swore by an oath, and shall not repent, saying, You are a priest unto the eon according to the order of Melchisedek.
PSA 110:5 The LORD from your right hand fractured kings in pieces in the day of his anger.
PSA 110:6 He shall judge among the nations; he shall fill up with corpses; he shall fracture in pieces heads upon the earth - many.
PSA 110:7 He shall drink from out of the rushing stream in the way; on account of this he shall raise up high a head.
PSA 111:1 Alleluiah. I shall make acknowledgment to you, O LORD, with my entire heart, in the counsel of the upright, and in the congregation.
PSA 111:2 Great are the works of the LORD, being inquired for all his wants.
PSA 111:3 His work is acknowledgeable and with majesty; and his righteousness abides into the eon of the eon.
PSA 111:4 He made a memorial for his wonders; merciful and pitying is the LORD.
PSA 111:5 A nourishment he gave to the ones fearing him; his covenant shall be remembered into the eon.
PSA 111:6 The strength of his works he announced to his people; to give to them the inheritance of nations.
PSA 111:7 The works of his hands are truth and equity; trustworthy are all his commandments;
PSA 111:8 fixed into the eon of the eon; done in truth and uprightness.
PSA 111:9 He sent a ransoming to his people; he gave charge into the eon concerning his covenant; holy and fearful is his name.
PSA 111:10 The beginning of wisdom is fear of the LORD, and good understanding to all the ones observing it. The praise of him abides into the eon of the eon.
PSA 112:1 Alleluiah. Happy the man fearing the LORD; in his commandments he will want exceedingly.
PSA 112:2 His seed will be mighty in the earth; a generation of the upright shall be blessed.
PSA 112:3 Glory and riches in his house; and his righteousness abides into the eon of the eon.
PSA 112:4 He caused to rise up in darkness a light to the upright; he is merciful and pitying and just.
PSA 112:5 A gracious man is the one pitying and lending; he shall manage his matters in equity.
PSA 112:6 For into the eon he shall not be shaken; the just one will be for an eternal memorial.
PSA 112:7 From hearing a wicked report he shall not be afraid; his heart is prepared to hope upon the LORD.
PSA 112:8 His heart is fixed firmly; in no way should he be fearful until of which he should look at his desires upon his enemies.
PSA 112:9 He dispersed, he gave to the needy; his righteousness abides into the eon of the eon; his horn shall be raised up high in glory.
PSA 112:10 A sinner shall see and shall be provoked to anger; he shall gnash his teeth and melt away; a desire of a sinner shall perish.
PSA 113:1 Alleluiah. Praise, O servants, the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD!
PSA 113:2 May the name of the LORD be for blessing from the present and unto the eon.
PSA 113:3 From the dawn of the sun until the descent - praiseworthy is the name of the LORD.
PSA 113:4 High above all the nations is the LORD; upon the heavens is his glory.
PSA 113:5 Who is as the LORD our God; the one dwelling in high places,
PSA 113:6 and inspecting the humble in the heaven, and in the earth;
PSA 113:7 the one raising the poor from the earth, and elevating the needy from the dung;
PSA 113:8 to set him with rulers - with rulers of his people;
PSA 113:9 the one who settles the sterile woman in a house as a mother being glad with children?
PSA 114:1 Alleluiah. In the exodus of Israel from Egypt, of the house of Jacob, from a barbaric people,
PSA 114:2 Judea became his sanctuary, and Israel his authority.
PSA 114:3 The sea beheld and fled; the Jordan turned to the rear;
PSA 114:4 the mountains leaped as rams, and the hills as little lambs of sheep.
PSA 114:5 What is it with you, O sea, that you fled? and you, O Jordan, that you turned to the rear?
PSA 114:6 For the mountains leaped as rams, and the hills as little lambs of sheep.
PSA 114:7 From the presence of the LORD the earth was shaken, from the presence of the God of Jacob;
PSA 114:8 of the one turning the rock into lakes of waters, and the chiseled stone into springs of waters.
PSA 115:1 Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but only to your name give glory; over your mercy, and your truth!
PSA 115:2 Lest at any time the nations should say, Where is their God?
PSA 115:3 But our God is in the heaven; and in the earth does all as much as he wants.
PSA 115:4 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, works of the hands of men.
PSA 115:5 They have a mouth, and they shall not speak. They have eyes, and shall not see.
PSA 115:6 They have ears, and they shall not hear. They have noses, and they smell not.
PSA 115:7 They have hands, and they shall not handle. They have feet, and they shall not walk. They shall not speak out loud through their throat.
PSA 115:8 Let the ones making them become likened to them, and all the ones yielding upon them!
PSA 115:9 The house of Israel hopes upon the LORD. He is their helper and defender.
PSA 115:10 The house of Aaron hopes upon the LORD. He is their helper and defender.
PSA 115:11 The ones fearing the LORD hoped upon the LORD. He is their helper and defender.
PSA 115:12 The LORD was remembering us; he blessed us; he blessed the house of Israel; he blessed the house of Aaron;
PSA 115:13 he blessed the ones fearing the LORD, the small with the great.
PSA 115:14 May the LORD add unto you; unto you and unto your sons.
PSA 115:15 You are being blessed by the LORD, the one making the heaven and the earth.
PSA 115:16 The heaven of the heaven belongs to the LORD; but the earth he gave to the sons of men.
PSA 115:17 The dead shall not praise you, O LORD, nor all the ones going down into Hades.
PSA 115:18 But we the living shall bless the LORD from the present and unto the eon.
PSA 116:1 Alleluiah. I loved that the LORD shall listen to the voice of my supplication.
PSA 116:2 For he leaned his ear to me, and during my days I shall call upon him.
PSA 116:3 The pangs of death compassed me; the dangers of Hades found me; I found affliction and grief.
PSA 116:4 And the name of the LORD I called upon. O LORD rescue my soul!
PSA 116:5 The LORD is merciful, and just; and our God shows mercy.
PSA 116:6 The LORD is the one guarding the infants. I was humbled, and he delivered me.
PSA 116:7 Return, O my soul, to your rest! For the LORD benefited you.
PSA 116:8 For he rescued my soul from out of death; my eyes from tears, and my feet from a slip.
PSA 116:9 I should be well-pleasing before the LORD in the place of the living.
PSA 116:10 I believed, therefore I spoke; but I was humbled exceedingly.
PSA 116:11 And I said in my change of state, Every man is a liar.
PSA 116:12 What shall I recompense to the LORD for all which he recompensed to me?
PSA 116:13 The cup of deliverance I shall take, and the name of the LORD I shall call upon.
PSA 116:14 My vows to the LORD I will render before all his people.
PSA 116:15 Esteemed before the LORD is the death of his sacred ones.
PSA 116:16 O LORD, I am your servant; I am your servant, and a son of your maidservant. You tore up my bonds.
PSA 116:17 To you I shall sacrifice a sacrifice of praise, and will call in the name of the LORD.
PSA 116:18 I will render my vows to the LORD before all his people;
PSA 116:19 in the courtyards of the house of the LORD, in the midst of you, Jerusalem.
PSA 117:1 Alleluiah. Praise the LORD all nations! Applaud him all peoples!
PSA 117:2 For his mercy is strengthened upon us; and the truth of the LORD abides into the eon.
PSA 118:1 Alleluiah Make acknowledgment to the LORD, for he is good! for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 118:2 Say indeed, O house of Israel, that he is good, for into the eon is his mercy!
PSA 118:3 Say indeed, O house of Aaron, that he is good, for into the eon is his mercy!
PSA 118:4 Say indeed, all the ones fearing the LORD, that he is good, for into the eon is his mercy!
PSA 118:5 From out of affliction I called upon the LORD; and he heeded me in an enlargement.
PSA 118:6 The LORD to me is a helper; and I shall not fear what man shall do to me.
PSA 118:7 The LORD to me is a helper; and I will scrutinize my enemies.
PSA 118:8 It is good to yield upon the LORD than to yield upon man.
PSA 118:9 It is good to hope upon the LORD than to hope upon rulers.
PSA 118:10 All the nations encircled me; and in the name of the LORD I repulsed them.
PSA 118:11 In encircling, they encircled me; and in the name of the LORD I repulsed them.
PSA 118:12 They encircled me as bees at a honeycomb; and they burned away as fire among thorn-bushes; and in the name of the LORD I repulsed them.
PSA 118:13 Being thrust through, I was prostrated to fall; and the LORD took hold of me.
PSA 118:14 The LORD is my strength and my singing of praise, and he became to me for deliverance.
PSA 118:15 The voice of exultation and deliverance in the tents of the just ones. The right hand of the LORD acted in power.
PSA 118:16 The right hand of the LORD exalted me. The right hand of the LORD acted in power.
PSA 118:17 I shall not die, but I shall live, and I shall describe the works of the LORD.
PSA 118:18 In correcting, the LORD corrected me; and he shall not deliver me to death.
PSA 118:19 Open to me the gates of righteousness; entering in them I shall confess to the LORD.
PSA 118:20 This gate of the LORD - the just ones shall enter in it.
PSA 118:21 I shall confess to you; for you took heed of me, and you became for me as deliverance.
PSA 118:22 The stone which the builders rejected, this one became for the head of the corner.
PSA 118:23 This happened by the LORD, and it is wonderful in our eyes.
PSA 118:24 This is the day which the LORD made; we shall exult and be glad in it.
PSA 118:25 O LORD, deliver indeed! O LORD, prosper the way indeed!
PSA 118:26 Being blessed is the one coming in the name of the LORD. We blessed you from out of the house of the LORD.
PSA 118:27 God is the LORD, and he shined upon us. Stand together for a holiday with the ones making dense the victims unto the horns of the altar.
PSA 118:28 You are my God, and I shall confess to you. You are my God, and I will exalt you. I will confess to you; for you took heed of me, and you became to me for deliverance.
PSA 118:29 I will confess to the LORD; for he is good; for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 119:1 Alleluiah. Blessed are the unblemished in the way, going by the law of the LORD.
PSA 119:2 Blessed are the ones searching out his testimonies; with the entire heart they shall seek after him.
PSA 119:3 For the ones practicing lawlessness were not gone in his ways.
PSA 119:4 You gave charge to keep your commandments exceedingly.
PSA 119:5 Ought that my ways be straightened out to keep your ordinances;
PSA 119:6 then in no way should I be ashamed in my paying attention concerning all of your commandments.
PSA 119:7 I shall confess to you in uprightness of heart, in my learning the judgments of your righteousness.
PSA 119:8 Your ordinances I will keep. You should not abandon me unto an exceedingly.
PSA 119:9 How shall a younger man keep straight his way? by the keeping of your words.
PSA 119:10 With my whole heart I inquired of you; you should not thrust me from your commandments.
PSA 119:11 In my heart I hid your oracles, so that I should not sin against you.
PSA 119:12 Blessed are you, O LORD. Teach me your ordinances!
PSA 119:13 With my lips I will declare all the judgments of your mouth.
PSA 119:14 I delighted in the way of your testimonies, as above all riches.
PSA 119:15 In your commandments I shall meditate, and I shall contemplate your ways.
PSA 119:16 I shall meditate in your ordinances. I shall not forget your words.
PSA 119:17 Recompense to your servant! Enliven me, and I will keep your words!
PSA 119:18 Uncover my eyes, and I shall contemplate the wonders of your law!
PSA 119:19 I am a sojourner in the earth. You should not conceal from me your commandments.
PSA 119:20 My soul longed to desire your judgments at every occasion.
PSA 119:21 You reproached the proud. Accursed are the ones turning aside from your commandments.
PSA 119:22 Remove from me scorn and contempt! for I inquired of your testimonies.
PSA 119:23 For even rulers sat and spoke ill against me; but your servant meditated in your ordinances.
PSA 119:24 For even your testimonies are my meditation; and your ordinances are my advice.
PSA 119:25 My soul cleaved to the floor; let me live according to your word!
PSA 119:26 My ways I declared, and you heeded me; teach me your ordinances!
PSA 119:27 Bring understanding to me in the way of your ordinances, and I will meditate in your wonders!
PSA 119:28 My soul slumbered from indifference; firm me in your words!
PSA 119:29 Remove the way of injustice from me; and show mercy to me by your law!
PSA 119:30 The way of truth I took up, and your judgments I did not forget.
PSA 119:31 I cleaved to your testimonies. O LORD, you should not put me to shame.
PSA 119:32 I ran the way of your commandments, whenever you widened my heart.
PSA 119:33 Establish for me, O LORD, the way of your ordinances, and I will seek after them always!
PSA 119:34 Bring understanding to me, and I will search out your law; and I will guard it with my whole heart!
PSA 119:35 Guide me in the road of your commandments! for I wanted it.
PSA 119:36 Lean my heart unto your testimonies, and not unto the desire for wealth!
PSA 119:37 Turn my eyes to not behold folly! Enliven me in your way!
PSA 119:38 Establish to your servant your oracle, so as to fear you!
PSA 119:39 Remove my scorn which I dreaded! for your judgments are gracious.
PSA 119:40 Behold, I desired your commandments. Enliven me in your righteousness!
PSA 119:41 And may your mercy come upon me, O LORD, even your deliverance according to your word.
PSA 119:42 Then I shall answer to the ones berating against me in a matter; for I hoped upon your words.
PSA 119:43 And you should not remove from out of my mouth the word of truth unto an exceeding amount; for upon your judgments I raised hope.
PSA 119:44 And I shall guard your law always, into the eon, and into the eon of the eon.
PSA 119:45 For I went into an enlargement; for I sought after your commandments.
PSA 119:46 And I spoke by your testimonies before kings, and I was not ashamed.
PSA 119:47 And I meditated in your commandments, which I loved very much.
PSA 119:48 And I lifted my hands to your commandments, which I loved; and I meditated in your ordinances.
PSA 119:49 Remember your words to your servant, which you raised my hope!
PSA 119:50 This comforted me in my humiliation; for your oracle enlivened me.
PSA 119:51 The proud acted unlawfully unto exceedingly; but from your law I did not turn aside.
PSA 119:52 I remembered your judgments of the eon, O LORD, and I was comforted.
PSA 119:53 Depression held me down because of the sinners - the ones abandoning your law.
PSA 119:54 Your ordinances were strummed chords of music to me in the place of my sojourn.
PSA 119:55 I remembered your name in the night, O LORD, and I kept your law.
PSA 119:56 This happened to me, for I sought after your ordinances.
PSA 119:57 You are my portion, O LORD; I spoke concerning guarding your law.
PSA 119:58 I beseeched your face with my entire heart. Show mercy on me according to your oracle!
PSA 119:59 I argued your ways, and I turned my feet to your testimonies.
PSA 119:60 I prepared, and was not disturbed to keep your commandments.
PSA 119:61 The rough cords of sinners twist me; but your law I did not forget.
PSA 119:62 At midnight I awoke to confess to you over the judgments of your righteousness.
PSA 119:63 I am a partner of all the ones fearing you, and the ones keeping your commandments.
PSA 119:64 Of your mercy, O LORD, the earth is full; teach me your ordinances!
PSA 119:65 That which is good you did with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
PSA 119:66 That which is good, and instruction, and knowledge, teach me! for I trusted your commandments.
PSA 119:67 Before my being humbled I committed trespasses; on account of this I guarded your oracle.
PSA 119:68 You are gracious, O LORD; and in your graciousness teach me your ordinances!
PSA 119:69 The injustice of the proud was multiplied against me; but I shall search out your commandments with my whole heart.
PSA 119:70 Their heart was curdled as milk; but I meditated upon your law.
PSA 119:71 It is good for me that you humbled me, so that I should learn your ordinances.
PSA 119:72 The law of your mouth is good to me, above a thousand pieces of gold and silver.
PSA 119:73 Your hands made me, and shaped me. Bring understanding to me, and I shall learn your commandments!
PSA 119:74 The ones fearing you shall see me and shall be glad; for in your words I raised hope.
PSA 119:75 I knew, O LORD, that your judgments are righteousness, and in truth you humbled me.
PSA 119:76 Let your mercy indeed be to comfort me, according to your oracle to your servant!
PSA 119:77 Let your compassions come to me, and I shall live! for your law is my meditation.
PSA 119:78 Let the proud be shamed! for unjustly they acted lawlessly against me. But I shall meditate in your commandments.
PSA 119:79 Turn towards me the ones fearing you, and the ones knowing your testimonies!
PSA 119:80 Let my heart become unblemished in your ordinances; so that I should not be shamed!
PSA 119:81 My soul is wanting for your deliverance. In your words I raised hope.
PSA 119:82 My eyes failed for your oracle, saying, When will you comfort me?
PSA 119:83 For I became as a leather bag in frost; your ordinances I forgot not.
PSA 119:84 How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute for me a judgment against the ones pursuing me?
PSA 119:85 Lawbreakers described a meditation against me, but not according to your law, O LORD.
PSA 119:86 All your commandments are truth. They pursued me unjustly; help me!
PSA 119:87 In a short time they would have finished me off entirely in the earth, but I did not abandon your commandments.
PSA 119:88 According to your mercy enliven me! and I shall guard the testimonies of your mouth!
PSA 119:89 Into the eon, O LORD, your word abides in the heaven.
PSA 119:90 Unto generation and generation is your truth. You laid the earth's foundation, and it abides.
PSA 119:91 The day abides by your disposition; for all things are your subservient.
PSA 119:92 Were it not that your law is my meditation, then would I have been destroyed in my humiliation.
PSA 119:93 In no way should I forget your ordinances into the eon; for by them you enlivened me.
PSA 119:94 I am yours, deliver me! for I sought after your ordinances.
PSA 119:95 Sinners remained behind for me, to destroy me. I perceived your testimonies.
PSA 119:96 I beheld the end of every completion. Your commandment is exceedingly spacious.
PSA 119:97 How I loved your law, O LORD; the entire day it is my meditation.
PSA 119:98 Above my enemies you made me wiser by your commandment; for into the eon it is to me.
PSA 119:99 I perceived above all the ones teaching me; for your testimonies are my meditation.
PSA 119:100 Above the elders I perceived; for I sought after your commandments.
PSA 119:101 From out of every evil way I restrained my feet, so that I shall guard your words.
PSA 119:102 From your judgments I did not turn aside; for you established law for me.
PSA 119:103 How sweet to my throat are your oracles; more than honey in my mouth.
PSA 119:104 By your commandments I perceived; on account of this I detested every way of injustice.
PSA 119:105 Your law is a lamp unto my feet, and a light to my paths.
PSA 119:106 I swore by an oath, and stood to guard the judgments of your righteousness.
PSA 119:107 I was humbled unto exceedingly, O LORD; enliven me, according to your word!
PSA 119:108 Take pleasure indeed in the voluntary offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me your judgments!
PSA 119:109 My soul is in your hands always; and your law I forgot not.
PSA 119:110 Sinners put a snare for me; but from your commandments I wandered not.
PSA 119:111 I inherited your testimonies into the eon; for they are a leap for joy to my heart.
PSA 119:112 I leaned my heart to observe your ordinances into the eon in remuneration.
PSA 119:113 Lawbreakers I detested, but your law I loved.
PSA 119:114 You are my helper and my shielder; by your words I raised hope.
PSA 119:115 Turn aside from me, O ones acting wicked, and I will search out the commandments of my God.
PSA 119:116 Take hold of me according to your oracle, and enliven me! and you should not put me to shame from my expectation.
PSA 119:117 Help me, and I shall be delivered; and I will meditate in your ordinances always!
PSA 119:118 All the ones defecting from your ordinances treated me with contempt; for their thought is unjust.
PSA 119:119 All the sinners of the earth I considered as ones violating the law; on account of this I loved your testimonies.
PSA 119:120 Nail up my flesh because of the fear of you! for from your judgments I feared.
PSA 119:121 I executed judgment and righteousness; you should not deliver me to the ones wronging me.
PSA 119:122 Look out for your servant for good! Let not the proud extort me!
PSA 119:123 My eyes are wanting for your deliverance, and for the oracle of your righteousness.
PSA 119:124 Do with your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your ordinances!
PSA 119:125 I am your servant. Bring understanding to me! and I will make known your testimonies.
PSA 119:126 It is time for the LORD to act; they effaced your law.
PSA 119:127 On account of this I loved your commandments; above gold and topaz.
PSA 119:128 On account of this I kept straight to all of your commandments; every way of the unjust I detested.
PSA 119:129 Your testimonies are wonderful; on account of this my soul searches them out.
PSA 119:130 The manifestation of your words shall give light, and bring understanding to simple ones.
PSA 119:131 I opened my mouth, and drew breath; for your commandments I longed after.
PSA 119:132 Look upon me, and show mercy on me, according to the practice of the ones loving your name!
PSA 119:133 Straighten out my footsteps according to your oracle; and let there not dominate me any lawlessness!
PSA 119:134 Ransom me from the extortion of men; and I will keep your commandments!
PSA 119:135 Let your face appear unto your servant; and teach me your ordinances!
PSA 119:136 Streams of waters flowed down my eyes when I kept not your law.
PSA 119:137 You are just, O LORD, and your judgments are straight.
PSA 119:138 You gave charge for righteousness of your testimonies and truth - exceedingly.
PSA 119:139 The zeal of you wasted me away, for my enemies forgot your words.
PSA 119:140 Your oracle is an exceeding setting on fire; and your servant loves it.
PSA 119:141 I am younger, and being treated with contempt; I did not forget your ordinances.
PSA 119:142 Your righteousness is righteousness into the eon, and your law is truth.
PSA 119:143 Afflictions and distresses found me; your commandments are my meditation.
PSA 119:144 Your testimonies are righteousness into the eon. Bring understanding to me, and I shall live!
PSA 119:145 I cried out with my whole heart. Heed me, O LORD! I will seek after your ordinances.
PSA 119:146 I cried out to you; deliver me, and I will keep your testimonies!
PSA 119:147 I anticipated at midnight, and I cried out; in your words I raised hope.
PSA 119:148 My eyes anticipated before dawn to meditate upon your oracles.
PSA 119:149 Hear my voice, O LORD, according to your mercy! Enliven me according to your judgment!
PSA 119:150 The ones pursuing me lawlessly draw near; and they are far from your law.
PSA 119:151 You are near, O LORD; and all your ways are truth.
PSA 119:152 From ancient times I knew of your testimonies, that into the eon you founded them.
PSA 119:153 Behold my humiliation, and rescue me! for I did not forget your law.
PSA 119:154 Judge my case, and ransom me! On account of your word enliven me!
PSA 119:155 Deliverance is far from sinners; for they did not seek after your ordinances.
PSA 119:156 Your compassions are many, O LORD; according to your judgment enliven me!
PSA 119:157 Many are the ones driving me out and afflicting me; from your testimonies I turned not aside.
PSA 119:158 I beheld ones lacking sense and wasting away; for they kept not your oracles.
PSA 119:159 Behold! For I loved your commandments; O LORD, in your mercy enliven me!
PSA 119:160 The beginning of your words is truth; and into the eon are all the judgments of your righteousness.
PSA 119:161 Rulers pursued me without charge; and from your words my heart was timid.
PSA 119:162 I shall exult over your oracles, as one finding many spoils.
PSA 119:163 Injustice I detested and abhorred; but your law I loved.
PSA 119:164 Seven times a day I praised you over the judgments of your righteousness.
PSA 119:165 Great peace is to the ones loving your law, and there is not an obstacle to them.
PSA 119:166 I expected your deliverance, O LORD, and I loved your commandments.
PSA 119:167 My soul guarded your testimonies, and it loved them very much.
PSA 119:168 I kept your commandments and your testimonies; for all my ways are before you, O LORD.
PSA 119:169 Let my supplication approach before you, O LORD! According to your oracle bring understanding to me!
PSA 119:170 May that which is fit of me enter before you, O LORD. According to your oracle rescue me!
PSA 119:171 My lips discharged forth a hymn, whenever you should teach me your ordinances.
PSA 119:172 May my tongue utter the sound of your oracles; for all your commandments are righteousness.
PSA 119:173 Let your hand be to deliver me! for I took up your commandments.
PSA 119:174 I longed after your deliverance, O LORD, and your law is my meditation.
PSA 119:175 My soul shall live, and it shall praise you; and your judgments shall help me.
PSA 119:176 I wandered as a sheep perishing. Seek your servant! for your commandments I did not forget.
PSA 120:1 An ode of the steps. I cried out to the LORD in my being afflicted, and he listened to me.
PSA 120:2 O LORD, rescue my soul from unjust lips, and from a deceitful tongue!
PSA 120:3 What may be given to you, and what may be added to you - to the deceitful tongue?
PSA 120:4 The arrows of the mighty are being sharpened with the solitary coals.
PSA 120:5 Alas, for my sojourn was far; I encamped with the tents of Kedar.
PSA 120:6 My soul sojourned much with the ones detesting peace.
PSA 120:7 I was peaceable whenever I was speaking to them; they waged war against me without charge.
PSA 121:1 An ode of the steps. I lifted my eyes unto the mountains, from where my help shall come.
PSA 121:2 My help is from the LORD, the one making the heaven and the earth.
PSA 121:3 May he not give your foot to tossing about, nor should the one guarding you slumber.
PSA 121:4 Behold, the one guarding Israel shall not slumber nor sleep.
PSA 121:5 The LORD shall guard you. The LORD is protection to you at your right hand.
PSA 121:6 By day the sun shall not burn you, nor the moon by night.
PSA 121:7 The LORD shall guard you from all evil; the LORD shall guard your soul.
PSA 121:8 The LORD shall guard your entrance and your exit, from the present and unto the eon.
PSA 122:1 An ode of the steps. I shall be glad over the ones saying to me, We shall go into the house of the LORD.
PSA 122:2 Our feet were standing in your courtyards, O Jerusalem.
PSA 122:3 Jerusalem being built as a city of which the sharing of it is together.
PSA 122:4 For there the tribes ascend, tribes of the LORD, for a testimony of Israel, to confess to the name of the LORD.
PSA 122:5 For there thrones sit in judgment; thrones for the house of David.
PSA 122:6 Ask indeed the things for peace to Jerusalem, and prosperity to the ones loving you!
PSA 122:7 Let there be peace with your force, and prosperity in your towered fortifications!
PSA 122:8 Because of my brothers and my neighbors I spoke indeed peace concerning you.
PSA 122:9 Because of the house of the LORD our God, I sought good for you.
PSA 123:1 An ode of the steps. To you I lifted my eyes, O one dwelling in the heaven.
PSA 123:2 Behold, as eyes of servants are to the hands of their masters; as the eyes of the maidservant to the hands of her lady; so our eyes are to the LORD our God, until of which he should pity us.
PSA 123:3 Show mercy on us, O LORD, show mercy on us! for unto greatly we are filled of contempt.
PSA 123:4 Our soul was more greatly filled with the scorn to the ones that prosper, and the contempt to the proud ones.
PSA 124:1 An ode of the steps. Unless it be that the LORD was with us - let Israel now say!
PSA 124:2 Unless it was that the LORD was with us in the rising up of men against us;
PSA 124:3 then would the ones living have swallowed us in the provoking to anger of his rage against us;
PSA 124:4 then would the water have sunk us; our soul going through the rushing stream;
PSA 124:5 Surely our soul went through the unsubdued water.
PSA 124:6 Blessed be the LORD, who did not give us as game for their teeth.
PSA 124:7 Our soul as a sparrow was rescued from out of the snare of the ones hunting. The snare was broken, and we were rescued.
PSA 124:8 Our help is in the name of the LORD, the one making the heaven and the earth.
PSA 125:1 An ode of the steps. The ones yielding upon the LORD are as mount Zion; the one dwelling Jerusalem shall not be shaken into the eon.
PSA 125:2 The mountains are round about her, and the LORD is round about his people from the present and unto the eon.
PSA 125:3 For the LORD will not allow the rod of the sinners upon the lot of the just ones; so that the just ones might not stretch out in lawless deeds with their hands.
PSA 125:4 Do good, O LORD, to the good, and to the straight in heart!
PSA 125:5 But the ones turning aside unto perverseness, the LORD shall take away with the ones working lawlessness. Peace unto Israel.
PSA 126:1 An ode of the steps. In the LORD returning the captivity of Zion, we became as ones comforted.
PSA 126:2 Then our mouth was filled with joy, and our tongue with exultation. Then shall they say among the nations, the LORD magnified himself in dealing with them.
PSA 126:3 The LORD magnified himself in dealing with us; we became ones being glad.
PSA 126:4 Return, O LORD, our captivity as the rushing streams in the south!
PSA 126:5 The ones sowing in tears, shall harvest in exultation.
PSA 126:6 The ones going went and wept throwing their seed; but the ones coming shall come in exultation, lifting their sheaves.
PSA 127:1 An ode of the steps. Unless the LORD built the house, the builders tired in vain. Unless the LORD guarded the city, the one guarding stayed awake in vain.
PSA 127:2 For it is vain for you to rise up early; you arise after sitting down, O ones eating the bread of grief, whenever he should give sleep to his beloved ones.
PSA 127:3 Behold, the inheritance of the LORD, O sons; it is the wage of the fruit of the womb.
PSA 127:4 As arrows in the hand of the mighty; so the sons of the ones being shaken off.
PSA 127:5 Blessed is the one who shall fill his desire with them; they shall not be disgraced whenever they should speak to his enemies at the gates.
PSA 128:1 An ode of the steps. Blessed are all the ones fearing the LORD; the ones going in his ways.
PSA 128:2 The toils of your wrist you shall eat; blessed are you, and well it will be to you.
PSA 128:3 Your wife is as a grapevine prospering on the sides of your house; your sons as newly planted olive plants round about your table.
PSA 128:4 Behold, thus the man fearing the LORD shall be blessed.
PSA 128:5 May the LORD bless you from out of Zion; and may you behold the good things of Jerusalem all the days of your life.
PSA 128:6 And may you behold the sons of your sons. Peace be upon Israel.
PSA 129:1 An ode of the steps. Many times they waged war against me from my youth - Let Israel indeed say!
PSA 129:2 Many times they waged war against me from my youth; and yet they were not able to prevail against me.
PSA 129:3 The sinners contrived upon my back; they prolonged their lawlessness.
PSA 129:4 The LORD is just; he cut down the necks of sinners.
PSA 129:5 Let them be shamed, and be turned to the rear - all the ones detesting Zion!
PSA 129:6 Let them become as grass on roofs which before being pulled out were dried!
PSA 129:7 of which the one harvesting did not fill his hand, nor the one collecting together the sheaves unto his bosom,
PSA 129:8 and the ones passing by said not, The blessing of the LORD be upon you; we bless you in the name of the LORD.
PSA 130:1 An ode of the steps. From out of the depths I cried out to you, O LORD.
PSA 130:2 O Lord, listen to my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication!
PSA 130:3 If you should closely watch lawless deeds, O Lord, O LORD, who shall stand?
PSA 130:4 For atonement is by you. Because of your name I waited for you, O LORD.
PSA 130:5 My soul waited for your word.
PSA 130:6 My soul hoped upon the Lord from the morning watch till night.
PSA 130:7 Let Israel hope upon the LORD! for with the LORD is mercy, and an abundant ransoming by him.
PSA 130:8 And he shall ransom Israel from all his lawlessnesses.
PSA 131:1 An ode of the steps. O LORD, my heart was not exalted, nor were my eyes raised up high, nor was I gone among the great ones, nor in wonders above me.
PSA 131:2 (Were it not I was humble-minded, but I exalted my soul.) As the one being weaned upon his mother, so will you recompense unto my soul.
PSA 131:3 Let Israel hope upon the LORD, from the present and unto the eon!
PSA 132:1 An ode of the steps. Remember, O LORD, David and all his gentleness!
PSA 132:2 As he swore by an oath to the LORD; he made a vow to the God of Jacob, saying,
PSA 132:3 Shall I enter into the tent of my house? Shall I ascend unto the bier of my stewn bed?
PSA 132:4 Shall I give sleep to my eyes, and slumber to my eyelids, and rest to my temples?
PSA 132:5 not until of which I shall find a place for the LORD, a tent to the God of Jacob.
PSA 132:6 Behold, we heard her in Ephratah; we found her in the plains of the groves.
PSA 132:7 We shall enter into his tents; we shall do obeisance in the place of which his feet stood.
PSA 132:8 Rise up, O LORD, unto your rest, you and the ark of your sanctuary!
PSA 132:9 Your priests shall put on righteousness, and your sacred ones shall exult.
PSA 132:10 Because of David your servant you should not turn away the face of your anointed one.
PSA 132:11 The LORD swore by an oath to David in truth, and in no way shall he annul it, saying, I will establish upon your throne from the fruit of your belly.
PSA 132:12 If your sons shall guard my covenant, and these my testimonies which I shall teach them, then their sons shall sit upon your throne unto the eon.
PSA 132:13 For the LORD chose Zion; he took it for a dwelling to himself, saying,
PSA 132:14 This is my rest into the eon of the eon; here I shall dwell, for I took her.
PSA 132:15 Her game being a blessing, I shall bless; her poor I will fill with bread loaves;
PSA 132:16 her priests I will clothe with deliverance; and her sacred ones shall exult in exultation.
PSA 132:17 There I will cause the horn to rise up to David. I prepared a lamp for my anointed one.
PSA 132:18 His enemies I will clothe with shame; but upon him my sanctification shall blossom.
PSA 133:1 An ode of the steps. Behold, indeed what is good or what is delightful, none other than the dwelling of the brothers together.
PSA 133:2 As perfumed liquid upon the head going down upon the beard - the beard of Aaron; the going down upon the edge of his garment;
PSA 133:3 as dew of Hermon going down upon the mountains of Zion; for there the LORD gave charge to the blessing - life unto the eon.
PSA 134:1 An ode of the steps. Behold indeed, bless the LORD all you servants of the LORD, the ones standing in the house of the LORD, in the courtyards of the house of our God in the night!
PSA 134:2 Lift up your hands in the holy place, and bless the LORD!
PSA 134:3 May the LORD bless you from out of Zion, the one making the heaven and the earth.
PSA 135:1 Alleluiah. Praise the name of the LORD! Praise, O servants, the LORD -
PSA 135:2 O ones standing in the house of the LORD, in the courtyards of the house of our God!
PSA 135:3 Praise the LORD! for the LORD is good. Strum to his name! for it is good.
PSA 135:4 For the LORD chose Jacob for himself - Israel for a prized possession to himself.
PSA 135:5 For I know that the LORD is great, and our LORD is above all the gods.
PSA 135:6 All as much as the LORD wanted he did in the heaven, and on the earth, in the seas, and in all the deeps;
PSA 135:7 leading clouds from the end of the earth; he made lightnings in rain; the one leading winds from his treasuries;
PSA 135:8 the one who struck the first-born of Egypt, from man unto beast.
PSA 135:9 He sent out signs and miracles in the midst of you, O Egypt, on Pharaoh, and among all his servants.
PSA 135:10 The one who struck many nations, and killed strong kings -
PSA 135:11 Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan.
PSA 135:12 And he gave their land for an inheritance, an inheritance to Israel his people.
PSA 135:13 O LORD, your name is into the eon; and your memorial unto generation and generation.
PSA 135:14 For the LORD shall judge his people, and concerning his servants he shall be comforted.
PSA 135:15 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of the hands of men.
PSA 135:16 They have a mouth, and they shall not speak; they have eyes, and they shall not see;
PSA 135:17 they have ears and they shall not give ear; and neither is a breath in their mouth.
PSA 135:18 May the ones making them become likened to them; and all the ones yielding upon them.
PSA 135:19 O house of Israel, bless the LORD! O house of Aaron, bless the LORD!
PSA 135:20 O house of Levi, bless the LORD! O ones fearing the LORD, bless the LORD!
PSA 135:21 Blessed be the LORD in Zion, the one dwelling in Jerusalem.
PSA 136:1 Alleluiah. Let us confess to the LORD! for he is good; for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:2 Let us confess to the God of gods! for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:3 Let us confess to the LORD of lords! for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:4 To the one doing great wonders alone, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:5 To the one making the heavens in skilfulness, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:6 To the one solidifying the earth upon the waters, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:7 To the one making the great lights alone, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:8 The sun for authority at day, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:9 The moon and the stars for authority of the night, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:10 To the one striking Egypt with their first-born, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:11 And leading Israel from their midst, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:12 With a strong hand and high arm, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:13 To the one dividing the red sea into divisions, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:14 And leading Israel through the middle of it, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:15 And the one shaking off Pharaoh and his force into the red sea, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:16 To the one leading his people in the wilderness, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:17 To the one striking great kings, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:18 And killing strong kings, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:19 Sihon king of the Amorites, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:20 And Og king of Bashan, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:21 And giving their land for an inheritance, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:22 An inheritance to Israel his servant, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:23 For in our humiliation the LORD remembered us, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:24 And he ransomed us from our enemies, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:25 The one giving nourishment to all flesh, for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 136:26 Confess to God, O heaven! for into the eon is his mercy.
PSA 137:1 To David through Jeremiah. At the rivers of Babylon, there we sat; and we wept in our remembering Zion.
PSA 137:2 At the willows in the midst of it we hung our instruments.
PSA 137:3 For there the ones capturing us asked us of words of odes; and the ones having taken us away asked for a hymn, saying, Sing to us from the odes of Zion!
PSA 137:4 How should we sing the ode of the LORD upon an alien land?
PSA 137:5 If I should forget you, O Jerusalem, may my right hand be forgotten.
PSA 137:6 May my tongue cleave to my throat if I do not remember you; if I do not prefer Jerusalem as in the beginning of my gladness.
PSA 137:7 Remember, O LORD, the sons of Edom in the day of Jerusalem! The ones saying, Empty it out, empty it out unto its foundations!
PSA 137:8 The daughter of Babylon, the miserable - blessed is he who shall recompense you with your recompense, which he was recompensing against us.
PSA 137:9 Blessed is he who shall hold and dash your infants against the rock.
PSA 138:1 A psalm to David; of Haggai and Zachariah. I will confess to you, O LORD, with my whole heart; and before angels I will strum to you; for you heard all the sayings of my mouth.
PSA 138:2 I shall do obeisance towards your holy temple, and shall make acknowledgment to your name concerning your mercy and your truth; for you magnified your holy name above all.
PSA 138:3 In what ever day I should call upon you, quickly heed me! You shall take great care of me in my soul by your power.
PSA 138:4 Let them make acknowledgment to you, O LORD, even all the kings of the earth! for they heard all the sayings of your mouth.
PSA 138:5 And let them sing in the ways of the LORD! for great is the glory of the LORD.
PSA 138:6 For high is the LORD, and he watches over the humble; and the high he knows from afar off.
PSA 138:7 If I should go in the midst of affliction, he shall enliven me. You stretched out your hands against the anger of my enemies, and your right hand delivered me.
PSA 138:8 The LORD shall recompense for me. O LORD, your mercy is into the eon. The works of your hands you should not ignore.
PSA 139:1 To the director; a psalm to David. O LORD, you tried me, and knew me.
PSA 139:2 You knew my sitting down and my rising up, you perceived my thoughts from far off.
PSA 139:3 My path and my bent rush grass you traced, and all my ways you looked out ahead.
PSA 139:4 For there is not a deceit in my tongue. Behold, O LORD, you knew all things -
PSA 139:5 the last and the former things. You shaped me, and put your hand upon me.
PSA 139:6 The knowledge of you causes wonder in me; it was strengthened, in no way should I be able to attain it.
PSA 139:7 Where should I go from your spirit? And from your presence where should I flee?
PSA 139:8 If I should ascend into the heaven, you are there. If I should go down into Hades, you are at hand.
PSA 139:9 If I may take up my wings at dawn, and I should encamp unto the ends of the sea,
PSA 139:10 for even there your hand shall guide me, and your right hand shall hold me.
PSA 139:11 And I said, Surely darkness shall trample me; even night was illumination for my luxury;
PSA 139:12 for darkness will not be made darkness with you; and night as day shall be given light; as its darkness, so also its light.
PSA 139:13 For you acquired of my kidneys; you took hold of me from out of the womb of my mother.
PSA 139:14 I will make acknowledgment to you, for fearfully you caused wonder - the wonders of your works; and my soul knows exceedingly.
PSA 139:15 My bones were not hidden from you, which you made in secret, and my essence in the lowermost parts of the earth.
PSA 139:16 Your eyes saw my unfinished state; and on your scroll all shall be written; days were shaped, and no one was among them.
PSA 139:17 But your friends exceedingly were esteemed by me, O God, their beginnings were exceedingly strengthened.
PSA 139:18 I shall count them out, and above the sand they shall be multiplied; I awake, and still I am with you.
PSA 139:19 O that you should kill sinners, O God. Men of blood - turn aside from me!
PSA 139:20 For you will say concerning their thoughts, that they shall take your cities in folly.
PSA 139:21 Is it not the ones detesting you, O LORD, that I detested? and against your enemies I wasted?
PSA 139:22 In perfect hatred I detested them; they became as enemies to me.
PSA 139:23 Try me, O God, and know my heart! Examine me, and know my paths!
PSA 139:24 And see if the way of lawlessness is in me, and guide me in the eternal way!
PSA 140:1 To the director; a psalm to David. Take me, O LORD, from the wicked man! Rescue me from the unjust man!
PSA 140:2 Ones who considered iniquity in their heart; the entire day they deployed for wars.
PSA 140:3 They sharpened their tongue as a serpent; the poison of asps is under their lips. PAUSE.
PSA 140:4 Guard me, O LORD, from the hand of the sinner! Take me away from unjust men, who reasoned to trip up my footsteps!
PSA 140:5 The proud hid a snare for me; and they extended lines for a snare for my foot; next to a road they placed an obstacle for me. PAUSE.
PSA 140:6 I said to the LORD, You are my God. Give ear, O LORD, to the voice of my supplication!
PSA 140:7 O LORD, O Lord, the power of my deliverance, you shadowed over my head in the day of battle.
PSA 140:8 You should not deliver me, O LORD, from my desire unto the sinner; they argue against me. You should not abandon me, lest at any time they should be raised up high. PAUSE.
PSA 140:9 As for the head of them encircling, trouble of their lips shall cover them.
PSA 140:10 Coals with fire shall fall upon them; you shall throw them down in miseries, and in no way should they stand.
PSA 140:11 A talkative man shall not prosper upon the earth; evils shall hunt an unjust man unto corruption.
PSA 140:12 I know that the LORD shall deal with the case of the poor, and the cause of the needy.
PSA 140:13 Besides, the just ones shall make acknowledgment to your name; and the upright shall dwell with your presence.
PSA 141:1 A psalm to David. O LORD, I cried out to you. Listen to me! Take heed to the voice of my supplication in my crying to you!
PSA 141:2 May my prayer be straightened as incense before you; the raising of my hands as a sacrifice at evening.
PSA 141:3 Set, O LORD, a watch for my mouth; and a citadel door for my lips!
PSA 141:4 You should not turn aside my heart to words of wickedness, to make excuses for sins with men working lawlessness; and in no way shall I associate myself with their choice ones.
PSA 141:5 The just ones shall correct me with mercy, and reprove me; but the oil of the sinner, let it not anoint my head! for still yet shall my prayer be against their good-pleasures.
PSA 141:6 Their judges were swallowed down next to the rock; they shall hear my sayings; for they are a delight.
PSA 141:7 As thick ground was broken asunder upon the earth, his bones were dispersed by Hades.
PSA 141:8 For unto you, O LORD, O Lord, are my eyes. Upon you I hoped. You should not take away my soul in return.
PSA 141:9 Keep me from a snare which they concocted against me, and from obstacles of the ones working lawlessness!
PSA 141:10 Sinners shall fall in their own casting-net. I am alone until whenever I should pass away.
PSA 142:1 Of contemplation to David; in his being in the cave praying. I cried out with my voice to the LORD; I beseeched with my voice to the LORD.
PSA 142:2 I shall pour out my supplication before him; I shall report my affliction before him.
PSA 142:3 In my spirit failing from me, then you knew my paths. In this very way that I went, they hid a snare for me.
PSA 142:4 I contemplated to the right, and I looked, for there was not one recognizing me; flight perished from me, and there is not one inquiring after my soul.
PSA 142:5 I cried out to you, O LORD. I said, You are my hope, you are my portion in the land of the living.
PSA 142:6 Take heed to my supplication! for I was humbled exceedingly. Rescue me from the ones pursuing me! for they were strengthened above me.
PSA 142:7 Lead my soul out of prison, to make acknowledgment to your name! The just ones shall wait for me, until of which you should recompense to me.
PSA 143:1 A psalm to David; when his son pursued him. O LORD, listen to my prayer! Give ear to my supplication in your truth! Hearken to me in your righteousness!
PSA 143:2 And you should not enter into judgment with your servant, for all the living shall not do justice before you.
PSA 143:3 For the enemy pursued my soul; he humbled my life unto the ground; he seated me in dark places as the dead of the eon.
PSA 143:4 And my spirit was discouraged within me; my heart was disturbed within me.
PSA 143:5 I remembered days of old; I meditated on all your works; I meditated on the actions of your hands.
PSA 143:6 I opened and spread out to you my hands; my soul is as a waterless land to you.
PSA 143:7 Quickly listen to me, O LORD, for my spirit fails! You should not turn your face from me, and I shall be like the ones going down into the pit.
PSA 143:8 Cause your mercy to be audible to me in the morning! for upon you I hoped. Make known to me, O LORD, the way in which I shall go! for to you I lifted my soul.
PSA 143:9 Rescue me from my enemies, O LORD! to you I take refuge.
PSA 143:10 Teach me to do your will! for you are my God. Your good spirit shall guide me in an upright land.
PSA 143:11 Because of your name, O LORD, you shall enliven me. In your righteousness you shall lead my soul from out of affliction.
PSA 143:12 And in your mercy you shall utterly destroy my enemies, and destroy all the ones afflicting my soul; for I am your servant.
PSA 144:1 A psalm to David; to Goliath. Blessed be the LORD my God, teaching my hands for battle array, and my fingers for war;
PSA 144:2 my mercy and my refuge; my shielder and my rescuer; my defender, and upon him I hoped; the one subjecting my people under me.
PSA 144:3 O LORD, what is man, that you were known to him? Or the son of man, that you should consider him?
PSA 144:4 Man is like folly; his days pass by as a shadow.
PSA 144:5 O LORD, lean your heavens, and come down! Touch the mountains, and they shall smoke!
PSA 144:6 Flash lightning, and you shall disperse them! Send out your arrows, and you shall disturb them!
PSA 144:7 Send out your hand from the height! Take me, and rescue me from many waters, from out of the hand of the sons of strangers,
PSA 144:8 whose mouth spoke folly, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity!
PSA 144:9 O God, I will sing a new ode to you; with a ten-stringed psaltery I will strum to you;
PSA 144:10 to the one giving deliverance to the kings; to the one ransoming David his servant from the ferocious broadsword.
PSA 144:11 Rescue me, and deliver me from the hand of the sons of strangers, whose mouth spoke folly, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity;
PSA 144:12 whom their sons are as newly planted, secure in their youth; their daughters being bedecked, being adorned sumptuously as the likeness of a temple;
PSA 144:13 their storerooms are full, discharging forth from out of this one to that one; their sheep are prolific, multiplying in their streets;
PSA 144:14 their oxen are thick; there is not a ruined fence, nor stream, nor a cry in their broad spaces!
PSA 144:15 the people declare them happy to which these things are. Blessed be the people of which the LORD is his God.
PSA 145:1 A praise to David. I will exalt you, O my God, my king; and I will bless your name into the eon, and into the eon of the eon.
PSA 145:2 According to each day I will bless you; and I will praise your name into the eon, and into the eon of the eon.
PSA 145:3 Great is the LORD, and praiseworthy exceedingly; and of his greatness there is not an end.
PSA 145:4 Generation and generation shall praise your works, and they will report of your power.
PSA 145:5 The majesty of the glory of your holiness they shall speak, and your wonders they will describe.
PSA 145:6 And the power of your fearful acts they shall speak, and they will describe your greatness.
PSA 145:7 The remembrance of the multitude of your graciousness they shall discharge forth, and in your righteousness they will exult.
PSA 145:8 Pitying and merciful is the LORD; lenient, and full of mercy.
PSA 145:9 Gracious is the LORD in all things; and his compassions are upon all his works.
PSA 145:10 Let make acknowledgment 4to you 5O LORD 1all 2of your works! And let your sacred ones bless you!
PSA 145:11 The glory of your kingdom they shall speak, and they shall tell of your dominion;
PSA 145:12 to make known to the sons of men of your dominion, and the glory of the majesty of your kingdom.
PSA 145:13 Your kingdom is a kingdom of all the eons; and your mastery is in every generation and generation. Trustworthy is the LORD in all his words, and sacred in all his works.
PSA 145:14 The LORD supports all the ones falling down, and re-erects all the ones being broken down.
PSA 145:15 The eyes of all hope in you; and you give them nourishment at an opportune time.
PSA 145:16 You opened your hand, and filled up every living creature of benevolence.
PSA 145:17 The LORD is just in all his ways, and sacred in all his works.
PSA 145:18 The LORD is near to all the ones calling upon him, to all the ones calling upon him in truth.
PSA 145:19 He will do the will of the ones fearing him; and their supplication he shall listen to, and shall deliver them.
PSA 145:20 The LORD guards all the ones loving him; and all the sinners he shall utterly destroy.
PSA 145:21 My mouth shall speak to praise the LORD. And let all flesh bless his holy name into the eon, and into the eon of the eon!
PSA 146:1 Alleluiah. Of Haggai and Zachariah. Praise the \Scap lord O my soul!
PSA 146:2 I will praise the LORD in my life. I shall strum to my God as long as I exist.
PSA 146:3 Do not have reliance upon rulers; upon the sons of men, in whom there is not a deliverance.
PSA 146:4 His breath shall go forth, and shall return unto his earth; in that day all his devices shall perish.
PSA 146:5 Blessed is of whom the God of Jacob is his helper; his hope is upon the LORD his God;
PSA 146:6 the one making the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all the things in them; the one guarding truth into the eon;
PSA 146:7 the one executing judgment to the ones being wronged; giving nourishment to the ones hungering. The LORD unties ones being shackled.
PSA 146:8 The LORD gives wisdom to the blind. The LORD re-erects ones being broken down. The LORD loves the just ones.
PSA 146:9 The LORD guards the foreigners; orphan and widow he takes up; and the way of sinners he obliterates.
PSA 146:10 The LORD shall reign into the eon - your God, O Zion, unto generation and generation.
PSA 147:1 Alleluiah. Praise the LORD! for a psalm is good! May praise be delicious to our God.
PSA 147:2 The LORD is building Jerusalem; the dispersions of Israel he shall assemble;
PSA 147:3 the one healing the ones broken in heart; and the one binding their ones being broken;
PSA 147:4 the one counting the multitude of stars; and calling to all them by names.
PSA 147:5 Great is our Lord, and great is his strength; and there is not a number of his understanding.
PSA 147:6 The one taking up gentle ones is the LORD; but humbling sinners onto the ground.
PSA 147:7 Take the lead to the LORD in acknowledgment! Strum to our God with a harp!
PSA 147:8 to the one covering the heaven with clouds; to the one preparing rain for the earth; to the one causing grass to rise up on mountains, and tender shoots for the service of men;
PSA 147:9 giving to the cattle their nourishment, and to the young of the crows calling upon him.
PSA 147:10 Not by the might of the horse does he want; nor by the shanks of a man does he think well of.
PSA 147:11 The LORD thinks well in the ones fearing him, and in the ones hoping upon his mercy.
PSA 147:12 Applaud, O Jerusalem, the LORD! Praise your God, O Zion!
PSA 147:13 For he strengthened the bars of your gates; he blessed your sons by you;
PSA 147:14 the one putting your borders at peace, and with fatness of wheat filling you up;
PSA 147:15 the one sending his oracle to the earth; unto quickly his word shall run;
PSA 147:16 yielding up his snow as wool; strewing fog as ashes;
PSA 147:17 throwing his ice as morsels. Before the presence of his chilliness who shall stand?
PSA 147:18 He shall send out his word, and melt them. He shall breathe his breath, and waters shall flow;
PSA 147:19 the one reporting his oracle to Jacob; his ordinances and judgments to Israel.
PSA 147:20 He did not do thus to every nation, and his judgments he manifested not to them.
PSA 148:1 Alleluiah. Of Haggai and Zachariah. Praise the LORD from out of the heavens! Praise him in the highest!
PSA 148:2 Praise him, all his angels! Praise him, all his forces!
PSA 148:3 Praise him, O sun and moon! Praise him, all the stars, and the light!
PSA 148:4 Praise him, O heavens of the heavens, and the water up above the heavens!
PSA 148:5 Praise the name of the LORD! for he spoke, and they existed. He gave charge, and they were created.
PSA 148:6 He established them into the eon, and into the eon of the eon. He made an order, and it shall not pass away.
PSA 148:7 Praise the LORD from the earth, O dragons, and all abysses!
PSA 148:8 fire, hail, snow, ice, wind, blast - the things executing his word;
PSA 148:9 the mountains, and all the hills; the trees bearing fruit, and all the cedars;
PSA 148:10 the wild beasts and all the cattle; the reptiles, and feathered winged creatures;
PSA 148:11 kings of the earth, and all peoples; rulers, and all judges of the earth;
PSA 148:12 young men and virgins; elders with younger.
PSA 148:13 Let them praise the name of the LORD! for his name alone is exalted. The acknowledgment of him is above the earth and heaven.
PSA 148:14 And he shall exalt the horn of his people, a hymn to all his sacred ones; to the sons of Israel, to a people approaching to him.
PSA 149:1 Alleluiah. Sing to the LORD a new song, of his praise in the assembly of the sacred ones!
PSA 149:2 Let Israel be glad upon the one making him! And the sons of Zion, let them exult over their king!
PSA 149:3 Let them praise his name among the company of dancers! With tambourine and psaltery let them strum to him!
PSA 149:4 For the LORD takes pleasure in his people, and he shall exalt the gentle with deliverance.
PSA 149:5 sacred ones shall boast in glory, and shall exult upon their beds.
PSA 149:6 The act of exaltation of God is in their throat, and double-edged broadswords are in their hands;
PSA 149:7 to execute punishment among the nations, and rebukes among the peoples;
PSA 149:8 to tie their kings in shackles, and their nobles in manacles of iron;
PSA 149:9 to execute among them written judgment. This glory is to all his sacred ones.
PSA 150:1 Alleluiah. Praise God in his holy places! Praise him in the firmament of his power!
PSA 150:2 Praise him according to his dominations! Praise him according to the magnitude of his greatness!
PSA 150:3 Praise him with a sound of a trumpet! Praise him with a psaltery and harp!
PSA 150:4 Praise him with a tambourine and company of dancers! Praise him with strings of a lyre and musical instrument!
PSA 150:5 Praise him with distinct cymbals! Praise him with a shout of cymbals!
PSA 150:6 All with breath, praise the LORD!
PRO 1:1 The proverbs of Solomon son of David, who reigned in Israel;
PRO 1:2 to know wisdom and instruction; to comprehend also words of intelligence;
PRO 1:3 to receive also the shifting and turning of words, and loosening enigmas; to comprehend also true righteousness, and to straighten out judgment;
PRO 1:4 that he should give to the guileless astuteness, but to the young child perception, and also reflection.
PRO 1:5 But of the ones for hearing, a wise one will be wiser, and the intelligent shall acquire guidance.
PRO 1:6 He shall comprehend also a parable and a dark matter; sayings also of the wise, and enigmas.
PRO 1:7 The beginning of wisdom is fear of the LORD, and good understanding to all the ones observing it. And piety to God is the beginning of perception. But wisdom and instruction the impious ones shall treat with contempt.
PRO 1:8 Hear, O son, the laws of your father! and you should not thrust away the rules of your mother.
PRO 1:9 for you shall receive a crown of favors for your head, and a collar of gold around your neck.
PRO 1:10 O son, you should not have caused impious men to wander you, nor should you consent.
PRO 1:11 If they should comfort you, saying, Come with us, partake in blood. for we should hide a just man unjustly in the ground,
PRO 1:12 and we should swallow him as Hades, while living, and lift his remembrance from the earth;
PRO 1:13 the very costly property of his we should overtake, and we should fill our houses of spoils.
PRO 1:14 and throw your lot in with us, and let there become one money bag for us!
PRO 1:15 You should not go in the ways with them. Turn aside your foot from their paths!
PRO 1:16 For their feet run to evil, and are quick to pour out blood.
PRO 1:17 For nets are not stretched out wrongfully for feathered birds.
PRO 1:18 For they, the ones partaking in murder, treasure up for themselves evils.
PRO 1:19 These are the ways of all the ones completing the lawless things. For by impiety they remove their own life.
PRO 1:20 Wisdom sings praise in the streets; and in the squares in open places she celebrates.
PRO 1:21 And she proclaims upon the tops of the walls; and at the gates of the city courageously says,
PRO 1:22 As much time as the guileless have of righteousness, they shall not be ashamed. But the foolish ones, the ones being craving insolence, having become impious ones, detest good sense,
PRO 1:23 and become accountable for reproofs. Behold, I will let go to you my breath's saying, and I will teach you by my word.
PRO 1:24 Since I called, and you did not obey; and I stretched out words, and you did not take heed;
PRO 1:25 but you made my counsels void, and your did not give heed to my reproofs;
PRO 1:26 accordingly I also laugh at your destruction; and will rejoice when ever ruin comes to you.
PRO 1:27 And when ever a tumult should arrive unto you suddenly, and the undoing of yourself like a blast is at hand; or whenever affliction and assault should come upon you;
PRO 1:28 that it will be whenever you should call upon me, even I shall not listen to you. Evil men shall seek me, and they will not find me;
PRO 1:29 for they detested wisdom; and the fear of the LORD they did not prefer;
PRO 1:30 nor wanted to take heed to my counsels, but sneered at my reproofs.
PRO 1:31 Accordingly they shall eat the fruits of their own way, and shall be filled with their own impiety.
PRO 1:32 For because they wronged the simple ones, they shall be slaughtered, and an inquisition shall destroy the impious ones.
PRO 1:33 But the one hearing me shall encamp with hope, and shall be tranquil without fear from all evil.
PRO 2:1 O son, if receiving the saying of my commandment, you shall hide it unto yourself;
PRO 2:2 your ear shall obey wisdom, and you shall set aside your heart unto understanding; and you shall set it for admonition to your son.
PRO 2:3 For if you should call upon wisdom, and should give your voice for understanding;
PRO 2:4 and you should seek great perception with your voice; and if you should seek her as silver, and should search her out as for treasures;
PRO 2:5 then you shall perceive the fear of the LORD, and you will find full knowledge of God.
PRO 2:6 For the LORD gives wisdom; and from his presence knowledge and understanding.
PRO 2:7 And he treasures up deliverance to the ones keeping straight; and he will shield their goings;
PRO 2:8 to guard the way of right actions; and the way of the ones venerating him he will protect.
PRO 2:9 Then you shall perceive righteousness and judgment, and you shall set up all courses of action for good things.
PRO 2:10 For if wisdom shall come into your consideration, and perception shall seem to be good for your soul;
PRO 2:11 good counsel shall guard you, and sacred reflection will keep you;
PRO 2:12 that it should rescue you from the evil way, and from the man speaking nothing trustworthy.
PRO 2:13 O the ones abandoning the straight ways to go in the ways of darkness.
PRO 2:14 O the ones being glad over evils, and rejoicing over evil perverseness - the final event of...;
PRO 2:15 which paths are crooked, and their tracks curved;
PRO 2:16 to cause you to be far from the straight way, and alien of the just design. O son, you should not let bad counsel overtake you;
PRO 2:17 which left the instruction of youth, and forgot the divine covenant.
PRO 2:18 For she put her house near death, and her courses of action lead by Hades with the earthborn.
PRO 2:19 All the ones coming near with her shall not return; nor shall they overtake straight paths, for they are not overtaken by years of life.
PRO 2:20 For if they went by good paths, they would have found even the paths of righteousness smooth. The inhabitants of the earth will be gracious, and the guileless will be left behind in her.
PRO 2:21 For the upright shall encamp in the land, and the sacred ones will be left behind in it.
PRO 2:22 And the ways of the impious ones shall be destroyed from the earth, and the lawbreakers shall be banished from it.
PRO 3:1 O son, forget not my laws, and give heed to my sayings in your heart!
PRO 3:2 For the length of existence, and years of life and peace, shall be added to you.
PRO 3:3 Charity and trust - do not let them fail to you! But affix them upon your neck! Write them upon the tablet of your heart!
PRO 3:4 and you shall find favor. And think beforehand on the good things before the LORD and men!
PRO 3:5 Be yielding with your whole heart upon God, and upon your own wisdom be not encouraged!
PRO 3:6 In all your ways make her known! that she should cut straight your ways.
PRO 3:7 Be not skilled of yourself, but fear God, and turn aside from all evil!
PRO 3:8 Then shall there be healing to your body, and care to your bones.
PRO 3:9 Esteem the LORD by your just toils, and dedicate to him from your fruits of righteousness!
PRO 3:10 that your storerooms should be filled with fullness of grain, and wine should gush out of your wine vats.
PRO 3:11 O son, do not have little regard for the instruction of the LORD, nor loosen up under his reproving!
PRO 3:12 For whom the LORD loves he corrects; and he whips every son whom he welcomes.
PRO 3:13 Blessed is the man who found wisdom, and the mortal who beholds intelligence.
PRO 3:14 For it is better to trade for her than for gold and silver treasures.
PRO 3:15 And she is more valuable than very costly stones; and every valuable thing is not equal her worth.
PRO 3:16 For length of existence and years of life are in her right hand; and in her left riches and glory. Out of her mouth goes forth in righteousness; and law and mercy she wears upon her tongue.
PRO 3:17 Her ways are good ways, and all her paths are in peace.
PRO 3:18 She is a tree of life to all the ones holding her; and to the ones leaning upon her are safe as upon the LORD.
PRO 3:19 God in wisdom founded the earth, and prepared the heavens in intelligence.
PRO 3:20 In his perception abysses were torn, and clouds flowed dew.
PRO 3:21 O son, you should not let it flow by; but heed my counsel and insight!
PRO 3:22 that your soul should live, and favor should be around your neck; and it will be healing to your flesh, and care to your bones;
PRO 3:23 that you should go yielded in peace in all your ways, and the foot of yours in no way should stumble.
PRO 3:24 For if you should sit down, you will be without fear; and if you should repose, you shall sleep with pleasure.
PRO 3:25 And you shall not be afraid of terror coming upon, nor the thrusting of the impious ones coming upon.
PRO 3:26 For the LORD will be over all your ways, and he shall establish your foot that you should not be shaken.
PRO 3:27 You should not be at a distance to do good to the one lacking, when you should have your hand to help.
PRO 3:28 You should not say, Returning, come back again, and tomorrow I will give! while being able to do good is with you; for you shall not see what shall give birth against you.
PRO 3:29 You should not contrive bad things against your friend sojourning and relying upon you.
PRO 3:30 You should not be fond of quarreling against a man in vain, so that he should not work evil against you.
PRO 3:31 You should not acquire scorn with evil men, nor should you be jealous of their ways.
PRO 3:32 For every lawbreaker is unclean before the LORD, and they do not sit together with the just ones.
PRO 3:33 The curse of the LORD is in the houses of the impious ones, but the properties of the just ones are blessed.
PRO 3:34 The LORD resists the proud, but gives favor to the humble.
PRO 3:35 The wise shall inherit glory; but the impious ones exalted dishonor.
PRO 4:1 Hear, O children, the instruction of a father, and take heed to know insight!
PRO 4:2 For I present to you a good gift; you should not abandon my word.
PRO 4:3 For I was also a son subject to a father, and being loved in the presence of a mother;
PRO 4:4 the ones who spoke and taught me, saying, Establish our word in your heart! Keep the commandments! Do not forget!
PRO 4:5 Acquire wisdom! Acquire understanding! You should not forget, nor should you ignore the saying of my mouth; nor should you turn aside from the words of my mouth.
PRO 4:6 You should not abandon it, for it shall hold to you. Love it passionately, and it will keep you!
PRO 4:7 Wisdom is the beginning - acquire wisdom! And in all of your possessing acquire understanding!
PRO 4:8 Surround her with a rampart, and she shall exalt you! Esteem her, that she should keep you;
PRO 4:9 that she should give a crown of favors to your head, and should shield you with a crown of luxury!
PRO 4:10 Hear, O son, and receive my words, and years of your life will be multiplied to you, that to you there should be many ways of life!
PRO 4:11 For the ways of wisdom I teach you; and I put you on board straight tracks.
PRO 4:12 For when you should go, your footsteps will not be hemmed in; and when you should run, you shall not tire.
PRO 4:13 Take hold of my instruction! you should not let go; but keep it to yourself, for your life!
PRO 4:14 You should not come by impious ways, nor be jealous of the ways of lawbreakers.
PRO 4:15 In what ever place they should encamp, you should not come there. Turn aside from them, and alter course!
PRO 4:16 For not in any way shall they sleep unless they should have done evil. Sleep is removed from them, and they do not go to bed.
PRO 4:17 For thus they feed well on grain of impiety; and by wine of a lawbreaker they are intoxicated.
PRO 4:18 But the ways of the just ones are likened to light - they radiate. They go before and give light until whenever the day should set up.
PRO 4:19 But the ways of the impious ones are dark - they do not know how they stumble.
PRO 4:20 O son, take heed to my saying; and to my words set aside your ear,
PRO 4:21 so that your springs should not fail you! Keep them in your heart!
PRO 4:22 For they are life to all the ones finding them, and healing to all flesh.
PRO 4:23 With all guard - give heed to your heart! For from out of these things are the issues of life.
PRO 4:24 Remove yourself from a crooked mouth, and thrust away unjust lips far from you!
PRO 4:25 Let your eyes see straight, and let your eyelids nod assent to a just one!
PRO 4:26 Make straight tracks for your feet, and straighten out your ways!
PRO 4:27 You should not turn aside unto the right nor unto the left; but turn your foot from an evil way! For the ways of the right God knows; but the ones perverting are of the left; but he makes your tracks straight, and he shall lead before your goings in peace.
PRO 5:1 O son, take heed to my wisdom, and set aside your ear to my words!
PRO 5:2 that you should guard good insight! And perception of my lips I give charge to you. Give no heed to a vile woman!
PRO 5:3 For honey drops from the lips of a harlot woman, which for a time fattens your throat.
PRO 5:4 Afterwards however you shall find it more bitter than bile, and being more sharpened rather than a double-edged sword.
PRO 5:5 For the feet of folly lead the ones dealing with her down unto Hades with death; and her tracks are not established.
PRO 5:6 For she does not come by the ways of life; but her tracks are slippery, and not well-known.
PRO 5:7 Now then, O son, hear me! and you should not do void works of my words.
PRO 5:8 Make your way far from her! You should not approach to doors of her houses;
PRO 5:9 that you should not let your means of life go to others, and your livelihood to the unmerciful;
PRO 5:10 that strangers should not be filled with your strength, and your toils should enter into houses of strangers;
PRO 5:11 and you shall be repenting at last, when ever the flesh wears away from your body.
PRO 5:12 And you shall say, O how I detested instruction, and my heart turned aside reproofs.
PRO 5:13 I did not hear the voice of one correcting me and teaching me; nor did I set aside my ear.
PRO 5:14 By little I came unto every evil in the midst of the assembly and congregation.
PRO 5:15 O son, drink waters from your own receptacles, and the flow from your own wells!
PRO 5:16 Let the waters overflow to you from out of your own spring; and into your own squares let your waters go along!
PRO 5:17 Let it be existing to you alone, and let not a stranger partake with you!
PRO 5:18 The spring of your water - let it be to you in particular! and be glad with the wife of your youth!
PRO 5:19 Let your hind of friendship, and your filly of favors, consort with you! and in particular let her be esteemed by you, and be with you at all time! For in this friendship you will be accommodated a great deal.
PRO 5:20 Be not much with the strange woman, nor hold the one not your own in embraces!
PRO 5:21 For the ways of a man are before the eyes of God, and he watches unto all his tracks.
PRO 5:22 Unlawful deeds ensnare a man; and each is grasped by chains of ones own sins.
PRO 5:23 This man comes to an end with the uninstructed; and from the abundance of his own sustenance was cast forth, and perished through folly.
PRO 6:1 O son, if you should guarantee a loan for your friend, you shall deliver up your hand to the enemy.
PRO 6:2 For a man's own lips are a strong snare, and he is captured by the words of his own mouth.
PRO 6:3 Do, O son, what I give charge to you, and preserve yourself! For on account of your friend you come into the hands of evils. Be not enfeebled! but you provoke even your friend whom you guaranteed a loan.
PRO 6:4 You should not give sleep to your eyes nor slumber to your eyelids,
PRO 6:5 so that you should escape as a doe from nooses, and as a fowl from out of a snare.
PRO 6:6 Be as the ant, O lazy one, and be jealous beholding his ways; and become as that one - wiser!
PRO 6:7 For to that one there is no farm possession, nor is he having one compelling him, nor is he being under a master.
PRO 6:8 He prepares the nourishment of summer, and also he prepares much in the harvest for the fete.
PRO 6:9 For how long, O lazy one, do you recline? And when will you arise from out of sleep?
PRO 6:10 A little then to sleep, and a little you sit down, and a little you slumber, and a little you fold your arms with hands to the breasts.
PRO 6:11 So then poverty comes upon you as an evil traveler, and lack as a good runner.
PRO 6:12 A foolish man, and a lawbreaker, shall go by ways not good.
PRO 6:13 And the same beckons with the eyes, and makes signs with the foot, and teaches with the beckoning of his fingers.
PRO 6:14 And a heart being perverted contrives evils; at all time such a one concocts disturbances to a city.
PRO 6:15 On account of this his destruction comes suddenly - severance and irretrievable destruction.
PRO 6:16 For he rejoices in all things which the LORD detests, and is destroyed because of uncleanness of soul -
PRO 6:17 an insulting eye, an unjust tongue, hands pouring out just blood,
PRO 6:18 and a heart contriving evil devices, and feet hurrying to do evil.
PRO 6:19 An unjust witness kindles lying, and brings in addition judicial cases between brothers.
PRO 6:20 O son, guard the laws of your father! and you should not thrust away the rules of your mother.
PRO 6:21 But affix them upon your soul always, and bind them with a cord around your neck!
PRO 6:22 When ever you should walk, bring it, and let it be with you! And when ever you should sleep, let it guard you, that in arising it should converse together with you!
PRO 6:23 For the commandment of the law is a lamp, and a light, and a way of life, and reproof, and instruction;
PRO 6:24 to guard you from a married woman, and from the distraction of a strange tongue.
PRO 6:25 O son, the desire of beauty should not overcome you; nor your eyes be caught nor seized by her eyelids.
PRO 6:26 For the value of a harlot is as much as even one bread loaf; and a woman ensnares the precious souls of men.
PRO 6:27 Shall anyone tie up fire in his bosom, and his garments not incinerate?
PRO 6:28 Or shall anyone walk upon coals of fire, and his feet shall not incinerate.
PRO 6:29 So the one entering to a married woman; he shall not be acquitted, nor any one touching her.
PRO 6:30 It is not a wonder if any be captured stealing, for he steals that he should fill up his soul when hungering;
PRO 6:31 but if he should be captured, he shall pay seven-fold; and shall rescue himself by giving all his possessions.
PRO 6:32 But the adulterer, through lack of sense, procures destruction for his soul.
PRO 6:33 Both griefs and dishonor he suffers; and his scorn shall not be wiped away into the eon.
PRO 6:34 For the rage of her husband is full of zeal - he will not spare in the day of judgment.
PRO 6:35 he will not bargain for any ransom of his hatred, nor part by many gifts.
PRO 7:1 O son, keep my words, and my commandments hide for yourself!
PRO 7:2 O son, esteem the LORD, and you shall strengthen; and besides him, do not fear another! Keep my commandments and you shall spend life, and my words keep as if the pupil of your eyes!
PRO 7:3 Put them on your fingers, and inscribe them upon the width of your heart!
PRO 7:4 Speak wisdom to be your sister; and procure to yourself intelligence as an acquaintance!
PRO 7:5 that she should keep you from the strange and wicked wife, if she should put words for you for favor.
PRO 7:6 For from the window of her house she leans into the squares,
PRO 7:7 at whom ever she should behold of the foolish one's offsprings - a young man lacking of sense,
PRO 7:8 passing by the corner in the corridors of her houses, speaking
PRO 7:9 in darkness during the evening, when ever all is at rest nightly, or also at dimness.
PRO 7:10 And the wife meets with him having the appearance of a harlot, which makes the heart of young men to flutter.
PRO 7:11 And she is inciting and carnal, and her feet do not stay still in her house.
PRO 7:12 For at certain time she strays outside, and another time she lies in wait in the squares by every corner.
PRO 7:13 Then, taking hold, she fondles him; and with impudent face she says to him,
PRO 7:14 There is a peace sacrifice with me, today I render my vows.
PRO 7:15 Because of this I come forth for meeting you; feeling the absence of your face, I have found you.
PRO 7:16 In trimming, I have stretched my bed. I spread spreads from Egypt.
PRO 7:17 I have sprinkled my bed with saffron, and my house with cinnamon.
PRO 7:18 Come, for we should enjoy friendship until dawn! Come, and we should wrap up in passion;
PRO 7:19 for my husband is not at hand in the house; he has gone a long way,
PRO 7:20 taking a bundle of silver in his hands; for only after many days will he come back again to his house.
PRO 7:21 And she led him astray with much companionship, and also with nooses. By the things from her lips she led him aground.
PRO 7:22 And he followed after her, being easily led on, and as an ox is led unto slaughter, and as a dog to bonds, and as a stag shot with a bow,
PRO 7:23 striking into the liver - but he hastens as a fowl into a snare, not seeing that he runs for his life.
PRO 7:24 Now then, O son, hear me, and take heed to the sayings of my mouth!
PRO 7:25 Do not turn aside to her ways with your heart, and you should not be misled by her short-cuts!
PRO 7:26 For she has thrown down many in piercing, and innumerable are whom she has murdered.
PRO 7:27 Her house is the ways of Hades - they lead down into the storerooms of death.
PRO 8:1 You shall proclaim wisdom, that intellect should obey you.
PRO 8:2 For she is upon the high extremities, and she stands in the midst of the paths.
PRO 8:3 For by the gates of mighty ones she is occupied; and in the entrances sings, saying,
PRO 8:4 You, O men, I comfort; and I let go with my voice to the sons of men.
PRO 8:5 Comprehend, O guileless ones, astuteness! and O uninstructed, insert it in heart!
PRO 8:6 Listen to me! for I shall speak serious things; and I will offer straight things from my lips!
PRO 8:7 For my throat shall meditate truth; and lying lips are abhorrent before me.
PRO 8:8 All the sayings of my mouth are with righteousness; nothing in them is crooked nor insidious.
PRO 8:9 All is face to face to the ones perceiving, and straight to the ones finding knowledge.
PRO 8:10 Receive instruction, and not silver! and knowledge above tried gold.
PRO 8:11 For wisdom is better than very costly stones; and every esteemed thing is not worth her.
PRO 8:12 I, wisdom, encamped with counsel and knowledge; and I called upon reflection.
PRO 8:13 The fear of the LORD detests injustice; insolence also, and pride, and the ways of evil ones; and I have detested the perverting ways of evil men.
PRO 8:14 Counsel and safety are mine; intelligence is mine; and strength is mine.
PRO 8:15 By me kings reign, and the mighty ones write righteousness.
PRO 8:16 Through me great men become magnified, and sovereigns through me take hold of the earth.
PRO 8:17 I love the ones being fond of me; and the ones seeking me shall find favor.
PRO 8:18 Wealth and glory exist by me, and much property and righteousness.
PRO 8:19 Best to gather my fruit than gold and precious stone; (and my produce is better than choice silver.
PRO 8:20 I walk in the ways of righteousness, and I return in the midst of paths of reason;)
PRO 8:21 that I shall portion substance to the ones loving me, and their treasuries I shall fill up of good things. If I should announce to you the things happening each day, I will remember also to count the things of the eon.
PRO 8:22 The LORD created me the head of his ways for his works.
PRO 8:23 Before the eon he founded me in the beginning, before the making the earth;
PRO 8:24 and before the making the abysses; before the coming forth of the springs of waters;
PRO 8:25 before the seating of the mountains; and before all the hills he engenders me.
PRO 8:26 The LORD made regions, and uninhabited places, and uttermost parts of the inhabitable world under the heavens.
PRO 8:27 When he prepared the heaven, I was present with him; even when he separated his throne upon the winds,
PRO 8:28 when he made the upward clouds strong, and as made the springs under heaven safe,
PRO 8:29 in the putting of his restriction to the sea, and the waters shall not go by his mouth, and as he made the foundations of the earth strong,
PRO 8:30 I was by him. I was being in accord, in which he rejoiced with. And each day I was glad in front of him at all time;
PRO 8:31 even when he was pleased with the completing the inhabitable world, and was pleased in the sons of men.
PRO 8:32 Now then, O son, hear me! and blessed are the ones guarding my ways.
PRO 8:33 Hear wisdom! and you should be wise, and you should not seal it up. Blessed is the man who shall listen to me, and the man who shall guard my ways;
PRO 8:34 being awake at my doors each day, giving heed at the doorposts of my entrances.
PRO 8:35 For my issues are the issues of life, and in them volition is prepared from the LORD.
PRO 8:36 But the ones sinning against me are impious unto their own souls; and the ones detesting me love death.
PRO 9:1 Wisdom built to herself a house, and she propped up seven columns.
PRO 9:2 She slew the things for herself which are offered in sacrifices; she mixed into a basin wine for herself, and she prepared a table for herself.
PRO 9:3 She sent her own servants, calling together with high proclamation, upon a basin, saying,
PRO 9:4 Whosoever is a foolish one, turn aside to me! And to the ones lacking of sense, she said,
PRO 9:5 Come eat of my breads, and drink wine which I mixed for you!
PRO 9:6 Cease folly, and you shall live! And seek intelligence, that you should spend life! And keep straight understanding by knowledge!
PRO 9:7 The one correcting evil men shall take on himself dishonor; and in reproving, the impious one scoffs at himself.
PRO 9:8 Do not reprove evil men, so that they should not detest you! Reprove a wise one, and he shall love you!
PRO 9:9 Give to a wise one opportunity, and he will be wiser! Make things known to a just one, and he shall proceed to receive more!
PRO 9:10 The beginning of wisdom is fear of the LORD; and the counsel of holy ones is understanding. For to know the law is of good consideration.
PRO 9:11 For in this manner you shall live a long time, and years of life shall be added to you.
PRO 9:12 O son, if you be wise, you shall be wise to yourself; and if you should turn out to be evil, then you shall draw evils alone.
PRO 9:13 A foolish and bold woman who does not have knowledge of shame becomes lacking of a morsel.
PRO 9:14 She sits at the doors of her own house upon a chair, visibly in the squares,
PRO 9:15 calling the ones passing by the way, and the ones going straight on their ways, saying,
PRO 9:16 Whoever is most foolish of you, turn aside to me! And to the ones lacking intelligence I rouse, saying,
PRO 9:17 Breads of secrets you touch with pleasure, and water of fraud you drink sweet!
PRO 9:18 But he does not know that earth-born men are destroyed by her, and he meets upon the perch of Hades.
PRO 10:1 A wise son gladdens a father; but a foolish son is distress to a mother.
PRO 10:2 Treasures shall not benefit the lawless; but righteousness shall rescue from out of death.
PRO 10:3 The LORD will not famish a just soul; but the life of the impious ones he will prostrate.
PRO 10:4 Poverty humbles a man; but the hands of the vigorous enrich. A son being corrected will be wise; but to the foolish one he shall be treated as to a servant.
PRO 10:5 An intelligent son is preserved from sweltering heat; but destruction by the wind comes at the harvest to a son who is a lawbreaker.
PRO 10:6 A blessing of the LORD is upon the head of a just one; but the mouth of the impious ones he covers with untimely mourning.
PRO 10:7 Remembrance of a just one is with commendation; but the name of an impious one is extinguished.
PRO 10:8 A wise heart shall receive commandments; but the open-mouthed shall be tripped up by crooked lips.
PRO 10:9 The one who goes simply, goes complying; but the one perverting his ways shall be known.
PRO 10:10 The beckoning eye with treachery gathers distresses for men; but the one reproving with an open manner makes peace.
PRO 10:11 The spring of life is in the hand of a just one; but destruction shall cover the mouth of an impious one.
PRO 10:12 Hatred raises up altercation; but friendship shall cover all the ones not fond of altercations.
PRO 10:13 The one who brings forth wisdom from his lips, beats the heartless man with a rod.
PRO 10:14 The wise shall hide perception; but the mouth of the precipitous approaches destruction.
PRO 10:15 The property of rich men is a fortified city; but destruction of the impious ones is poverty.
PRO 10:16 The works of the just ones produce life; but the fruit of the impious ones produces sins.
PRO 10:17 Instruction keeps the ways of life; but instruction unascertained wanders.
PRO 10:18 Just lips cover hatred; but the ones bringing forth reviling are most foolish.
PRO 10:19 By many words you shall not flee from sin; but sparing of your lips you will be intelligent.
PRO 10:20 The tongue of a just one is silver being purified; but the heart of an impious one shall fail.
PRO 10:21 The lips of the just ones have knowledge of high things; but the foolish ones come to an end with lack.
PRO 10:22 The blessing of the LORD upon the head of a just one - this enriches, and in no way shall distress in heart be added to it.
PRO 10:23 With laughter a foolish one commits evils; but wisdom births intelligence to a man.
PRO 10:24 By destruction an impious one is carried round about; but the desire of a just one is accepted.
PRO 10:25 In the coming of the blast the impious one is obliterated; but a just one, in turning aside, escapes into the eon.
PRO 10:26 As an unripe grape to the teeth is hurtful, and smoke to the eyes; thus unlawfulness to the ones dealing with it.
PRO 10:27 The fear of the LORD adds days; but the years of the impious ones shall be lessened.
PRO 10:28 Gladness lingers with just ones; but the hope of the impious ones shall be destroyed.
PRO 10:29 The fear of the LORD is the fortress of the sacred; but destruction to the ones working evils.
PRO 10:30 A just one shall not give way into the eon; but the impious ones shall not live on the earth.
PRO 10:31 The mouth of a just one drops wisdom; but the tongue of the unjust one shall be totally ruined.
PRO 10:32 The lips of just men drop favors; but the mouth of impious ones is perverted.
PRO 11:1 Deceitful yoke balance scales are an abomination before the LORD; but a just weight is acceptable to him.
PRO 11:2 Where ever insult should enter, dishonor is also there; but the mouth of the humble meditates upon wisdom.
PRO 11:3 A just one forsakes regret in dying; but beforehand the destruction of the impious ones takes place and incurs ridicule.
PRO 11:4 The soundness of upright ones will guide them; and a fall will plunder the ones disregarding them. Possessions will not benefit in the day of rage; and righteousness shall rescue from death.
PRO 11:5 Righteousness unblemished cuts straight ways; but impiety falls among injustice.
PRO 11:6 Righteousness of upright men shall rescue them; but by thoughtlessness lawbreakers are captured.
PRO 11:7 A coming to an end of a just man, hope is not destroyed; but the boasting of the impious ones is destroyed.
PRO 11:8 A just one is taken from out of a trap; and instead of him the impious one is delivered up.
PRO 11:9 In the mouth of the impious ones is a snare to fellow-countrymen; but the perception of the just ones is prosperous.
PRO 11:10 By the good things of the just ones a city is set up; and in the destruction of the impious ones there is a leap for joy.
PRO 11:11 By the blessing of the upright a city shall be exalted; but by the mouths of impious ones it shall be razed.
PRO 11:12 A man lacking of sense sneers at fellow-countrymen; but an intelligent man leads restfully.
PRO 11:13 A man being double-tongued uncovers plans in the sanhedrin; but the trustworthy man in breath keeps matters hidden.
PRO 11:14 The ones who do not exist with guidance, fall as leaves; but deliverance exists in much counsel.
PRO 11:15 The wicked man does evil whenever he mixes with a just one; and he detests the sound of safety.
PRO 11:16 A gracious wife raises glory to her husband; but a throne of dishonor is a wife detesting just things. The lazy become lacking of riches; but the vigorous establish riches.
PRO 11:17 A merciful man does good to his soul; but the unmerciful totally ruins his body.
PRO 11:18 An impious one does unjust works; but the seed of the just ones is a wage of truth.
PRO 11:19 A just son engenders unto life; but the persecution of an impious one is unto death.
PRO 11:20 Perverting ways are an abomination to the LORD; but all unblemished ones in the way are acceptable to him.
PRO 11:21 The one putting hands unjustly against a hand will not be unpunished of evils; but the one sowing righteousness shall receive a trustworthy wage.
PRO 11:22 As a ring of gold in a nose of a pig; so beauty to an evil-minded woman.
PRO 11:23 All the desire of the just ones is good; but the hope of impious ones shall perish.
PRO 11:24 There are the ones sowing their own seed making more; and there are also the ones gathering having less.
PRO 11:25 Every sincere soul is being blessed; but a man inclined to rage is not decent.
PRO 11:26 May the one hoarding grain leave it to the nations; but a blessing be on the head of the one sharing.
PRO 11:27 The one contriving good things seeks good favor; but the one seeking evil things, evil shall overtake him.
PRO 11:28 The one yielding upon his own riches, this one shall fall; but the one assisting the just ones shall rise.
PRO 11:29 The one not being accommodating to his own house shall inherit the wind; and a foolish one will be a slave to the intelligent.
PRO 11:30 From out of the fruit of righteousness germinates a tree of life; but the lives of lawbreakers are removed at unseasonable times.
PRO 11:31 If then a just man hardly is delivered, the impious one and the sinner, where shall he appear?
PRO 12:1 The one loving instruction loves perception; but the one detesting reproofs is a foolish one.
PRO 12:2 Better the one finding favor from the LORD; but a man who is a lawbreaker shall be silenced.
PRO 12:3 A man will not keep straight by a lawless deed; but the roots of the just ones shall not be lifted away.
PRO 12:4 A courageous wife is a crown to her husband; but as the worm in wood, so an evil doing wife destroys her husband.
PRO 12:5 The devices of just ones are true judgments; but impious ones shall devise treachery.
PRO 12:6 The words of impious ones are deceitful for blood; but the mouth of upright ones shall rescue them.
PRO 12:7 Of which ever time the impious one should be overturned he vanishes; but houses of just ones remain.
PRO 12:8 The mouth of the discerning is lauded by a man; but the dull of heart is sneered at.
PRO 12:9 Better a man with dishonor serving himself, than one putting value on himself, and feeling want of bread.
PRO 12:10 A just one pities the lives of his cattle; but the feelings of compassion of the impious ones are unmerciful.
PRO 12:11 The one working his own ground shall be filled up of breads; but the ones pursuing vain things are lacking of sense. The one who is pleasure-bent in wine drinking pastimes, shall leave behind dishonor in his own fortresses.
PRO 12:12 The desires of the impious ones are evil things; but the roots of the pious are in fortresses.
PRO 12:13 Through the sin of the lips a sinner falls into snares; but a just one flees from them.
PRO 12:14 From fruits of the mouth a soul of a man shall be filled of good things; and a recompense of his lips shall be rendered to him.
PRO 12:15 The ways of foolish ones are straight before them; but a wise one listens to advice.
PRO 12:16 A foolish one daily publishes his anger; but an astute one hides his own dishonor.
PRO 12:17 A just one reports by displaying trust; but the witness of the unjust is deceitful.
PRO 12:18 There are the ones speaking - they pierce as a sword; but the tongues of the wise heal.
PRO 12:19 True lips straighten testimony; but a quick witness has an unjust tongue.
PRO 12:20 Treachery is in the heart of the one contriving evils; but the ones wanting peace shall be glad.
PRO 12:21 Anything unjust shall not please the just one; but the impious ones shall be filled with bad things.
PRO 12:22 Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD; but the one dealing in trust is accepted by him.
PRO 12:23 A discerning man is a throne of perception; but the heart of foolish ones shall meet with curses.
PRO 12:24 The hand of chosen men shall prevail easily; but the deceitful will be for plunder.
PRO 12:25 A fearful word disturbs the heart of a man; but a good message gladdens him.
PRO 12:26 A friend will be a just arbitrator of himself; but the ones sinning pursue evil things; and the way of the impious ones misleads them.
PRO 12:27 A deceitful man shall not succeed in hunting; but a pure man is an esteemed possession.
PRO 12:28 In the ways of righteousness is life; but the ways of the resentful are unto death.
PRO 13:1 An astute son is subject to his father; but an unhearing son goes unto destruction.
PRO 13:2 From fruits of righteousness the good shall eat; but the lives of lawbreakers will be destroyed unseasonably.
PRO 13:3 The one who guards his own mouth gives heed to his own soul; but the one with precipitous lips shall terrify himself.
PRO 13:4 Every idle man is with desire; but the hands of the vigorous are caring.
PRO 13:5 A just one detests an unjust word; but an impious one is ashamed, and shall not have an open manner.
PRO 13:6 Righteousness guards the guileless in the way; but the vile impious ones produce sin.
PRO 13:7 There are the ones enriching themselves, having nothing; and there are the ones abasing themselves with many riches.
PRO 13:8 A man's own riches is the ransom of his life; but the poor does not stand at intimidation.
PRO 13:9 Light to the just ones is always; light of the impious ones is extinguished.
PRO 13:10 An evil man practices evil with insult; but the wise ones are arbitrating examining themselves..
PRO 13:11 Substance being hastily obtained with lawlessness becomes less; but the one gathering for himself with piety shall be multiplied. A just one pities and lends.
PRO 13:12 Better one commencing help in heart, promising, and leads another to hope; for a good desire is a tree of life.
PRO 13:13 The one who disdains a matter, shall be disdained by it; but the one fearing a commandment, this one is in health. To a deceitful son nothing will be good; but to a wise servant his actions will be prosperous, and his way shall prosper.
PRO 13:14 Law for a wise one it is a spring of life; but the mindless shall die by a snare.
PRO 13:15 Good understanding gives favor, and to know the law is of good consideration; but the ways of the disdaining end in destruction.
PRO 13:16 Every astute man acts with knowledge; but the foolish one spreads forth evil for himself.
PRO 13:17 A rash king falls into evils; but a wise messenger shall rescue him.
PRO 13:18 Poverty and dishonor are removed by instruction; and the one guarding reproofs shall be extolled.
PRO 13:19 The desires of the impious ones delight a soul; but the works of the impious ones are far from knowledge.
PRO 13:20 The one going with wise ones will be wise; but the one going with foolish ones shall be known.
PRO 13:21 Evils shall pursue ones sinning; but good things shall overtake just ones.
PRO 13:22 A good man shall inherit sons of sons; and riches of impious ones are treasured up to just ones.
PRO 13:23 The just ones shall spend many years in wealth; but unjust ones shall perish suddenly.
PRO 13:24 The one who spares the staff detests his son; but the one loving carefully corrects.
PRO 13:25 A just one, in eating, fills up his soul; but souls of the impious ones go lacking.
PRO 14:1 Wise women build houses; but the foolish one razes her house by her hands.
PRO 14:2 The one going rightly fears the LORD; but the crooked one shall be dishonored in his ways.
PRO 14:3 From out of the mouth of foolish ones is a staff of insult; but the lips of wise ones keep them.
PRO 14:4 Where there are no oxen, the stables are clean; and where there is much produce, the strength of the ox is apparent.
PRO 14:5 A trustworthy witness lies not; but a lying witness kindles unjust acts.
PRO 14:6 You shall seek wisdom with bad men, and you shall not find it; but good sense from the intelligent is easily managed.
PRO 14:7 All things are adverse to a foolish man; but wise lips are shields for good sense.
PRO 14:8 The wisdom of astute ones will realize their ways; but the thoughtlessness of foolish ones leads into delusion.
PRO 14:9 Houses of lawbreakers shall owe a cleansing; but houses of the just ones are acceptable.
PRO 14:10 The heart of a man is sensitive of his soul's distress; but whenever he should be glad, he shall not intermix insult.
PRO 14:11 The houses of the impious ones shall be obliterated; but the tents of the ones keeping straight shall stand.
PRO 14:12 There is a way which seems to be straight by men, but the finalities of it come into the lower branch of Hades.
PRO 14:13 Distress does not mingle with gladness; and the finality of joy comes into mourning.
PRO 14:14 The bold-hearted shall be filled of his own ways; and a good man with his thoughts.
PRO 14:15 The guileless believe every word; but the astute one comes to repentance.
PRO 14:16 A wise man, fearing, turns aside from evil; but the foolish one, yielding to himself, mixes in with the lawless one.
PRO 14:17 A man quick to rage acts with thoughtlessness; but an intelligent man endures many things.
PRO 14:18 Foolish ones shall portion evil; but the astute shall hold to good sense.
PRO 14:19 Evil men shall slip before good men; and impious ones will attend the doors of the just ones.
PRO 14:20 Friends shall detest poor friends; but friends of the rich are many.
PRO 14:21 The one dishonoring the needy sins; but the one showing mercy on the poor is most blessed.
PRO 14:22 The ones wandering contrive evils; but mercy and truth are contrived by the good. The fabricators of evils do not have knowledge of mercy and trust; but charity and trust are by good fabricators.
PRO 14:23 With every one having concern there is extra; but the pleasure-bent and unfeeling will be with lack.
PRO 14:24 The crown of the wise is their riches; but the pastime of foolish ones is evil.
PRO 14:25 A trustworthy witness shall rescue a soul from evils; but a deceitful man kindles lying.
PRO 14:26 In the fear of the LORD hope is strength; and to his children he leaves a support.
PRO 14:27 The order of the LORD is a spring of life, and it causes one to turn aside from the snare of death.
PRO 14:28 Glory of a king is in an abundant nation; but in a wanting people there is destruction of a mighty one.
PRO 14:29 A lenient man is abundant in intelligence; but the faint-hearted is strongly foolish.
PRO 14:30 A gentle-minded man is a healer of the heart; but a sensitive heart is a moth for the bones.
PRO 14:31 The one extorting the needy provokes the one making him; but the one esteeming him shows mercy on the poor.
PRO 14:32 An impious one shall be thrust away in his evil; the one complying in his own sacredness is a just one.
PRO 14:33 Wisdom rests in the heart of a good man; but in the heart of foolish ones it is not determined.
PRO 14:34 Righteousness raises up high a nation; but sins lessen tribes.
PRO 14:35 An intelligent officer is acceptable to a king; and by his own versatility he removes dishonor.
PRO 15:1 Anger destroys even the intelligent; but the answer of a penitent man returns rage; but a distressing word raises up angers.
PRO 15:2 The tongue of the wise has knowledge of good; but the mouth of foolish ones announces evils.
PRO 15:3 In every place the eyes of the LORD watch both bad and good.
PRO 15:4 A healing tongue is a tree of life, and the one preserving it shall be filled of spirit.
PRO 15:5 A foolish one sneers at the instruction of his father; but the one keeping his commandments is more astute. In superabundant righteousness is abundant strength; but the impious ones entirely rooted from the earth shall be destroyed.
PRO 15:6 In houses of the just ones is much strength; but the fruits of the impious ones shall be destroyed.
PRO 15:7 Lips of wise ones are bound by good sense; but hearts of foolish ones are not safe.
PRO 15:8 Sacrifices of impious ones are an abomination to the LORD; but vows of ones going straight are accepted by him.
PRO 15:9 The ways of an impious one are an abomination to the LORD; he loves ones pursuing righteousness.
PRO 15:10 The instruction of guileless ones is made known by the ones passing by; and the ones detesting reproofs come to an end disgracefully.
PRO 15:11 Hades and destruction are made apparent by the LORD; how not also the hearts of men?
PRO 15:12 The uninstructed shall not love the ones reproving him; and with wise ones he shall not consort.
PRO 15:13 With a heart being glad the face flourishes; but being in distresses it looks downcast.
PRO 15:14 An upright heart seeks perception; but the mouth of uninstructed ones shall know evils.
PRO 15:15 All the time the eyes of evil ones favorably receive evil things; but the good ones are always tranquil.
PRO 15:16 Better a small portion with a fear of the LORD; than great treasures with fearlessness.
PRO 15:17 Better hospitality of vegetables with friendship and favor, than a fete of calves with hatred.
PRO 15:18 A man inclined to rage makes preparations for battle; but a lenient one soothes even the one about to go to battle. A lenient man shall extinguish litigations; but the impious one raises them rather.
PRO 15:19 The ways of idle ones make a bed in thorn-bushes; but the ways of the vigorous are very busy.
PRO 15:20 A wise son gladdens a father; but a foolish son sneers at his mother.
PRO 15:21 The roads of an unthinking one are lacking of sense; but an intelligent man goes straightening.
PRO 15:22 The ones not honoring the sanhedrins procrastinate by devices; but in the hearts of ones counseling abides counsel;
PRO 15:23 for in no way shall an evil man obey it; nor shall he say anything timely, even for the common good.
PRO 15:24 The thoughts of a discerning one are ways of life; that turning aside from Hades he should be delivered.
PRO 15:25 The LORD tears down the houses of arrogant ones; but he supports the boundary of the widow.
PRO 15:26 The device of an unjust one is an abomination to the LORD; but the sayings of pure ones are serious.
PRO 15:27 The one receiving bribes totally ruins himself; but the one detesting the receipts of bribes is delivered. Charity and trust clear away sins; and the fear of the LORD turns aside every one from evil.
PRO 15:28 The hearts of the just ones meditate trust; but the mouth of impious ones answers evil things. The ways of just men are acceptable with the LORD; and through them even enemies become friends.
PRO 15:29 God is far at a distance from impious ones; but vows of just ones he heeds. Better are few receipts with righteousness, than abundant produce with injustice.
PRO 15:30 An eye viewing good gladdens a heart; and a good reputation fattens bones.
PRO 15:31 The one hearing reproofs of life shall lodge in the midst of wise ones.
PRO 15:32 The one who thrusts away instruction detests himself; but the one giving heed to reproofs loves his life.
PRO 15:33 The fear of the LORD is instruction and wisdom; and the sum of glory shall be the response to it; but the humble go before glory;
PRO 16:1 Let the heart of a man consider just things, that his footsteps should set right by God. All the works of the humble are apparent by God; but the impious ones shall be destroyed in an evil day.
PRO 16:5 Every proud heart is unclean with God; and one putting a hand against hands unjustly, shall not be acquitted. The beginning of a good way is to do the just things; and it is more acceptable by God rather than to sacrifice sacrifices. The one seeking the LORD shall find knowledge with righteousness; and the ones rightly seeking him shall find peace. All the works of the LORD are with righteousness; and the impious one is kept for an evil day.
PRO 16:10 An oracle is upon the lips of a king; but in judgment, in no way should his mouth be misled.
PRO 16:11 The crux of the yoke balance scale is righteousness with God; and the works of his are just weights.
PRO 16:12 The one doing evils is an abomination to a king; for with righteousness the throne of sovereignty is prepared.
PRO 16:13 Just lips are acceptable to a king; and the LORD loves straight words.
PRO 16:14 The rage of a king is a messenger of death; but a wise man will appease him.
PRO 16:15 The son of a king is in the light of life; and the ones acceptable to him are as a cloud of late rain.
PRO 16:16 Nests of wisdom are more preferred than gold; and nests of intelligence more preferred than silver.
PRO 16:17 The paths of life turn aside from evils; and the ways of righteousness are length of existence. The one receiving instruction will be among good things; and the one keeping reproofs shall be made wise. The one who guards his own ways gives heed to his own soul; and the one loving his life shall spare his mouth.
PRO 16:18 Insolence takes the lead before destruction; and before a calamitous downfall evil thinking.
PRO 16:19 Better a gentle-minded one with a low estate, than one who divides spoils with the arrogant.
PRO 16:20 The one discerning in matters is an inventor of good things; and the one yielding upon God is most blessed.
PRO 16:21 Men call the wise and discerning vile; but the ones sweet in words shall be heard much.
PRO 16:22 The spring of life is insight to the ones acquiring; but instruction of foolish ones is evil.
PRO 16:23 The heart of a wise one shall comprehend the things from his own mouth; and upon lips he shall wear knowledge.
PRO 16:24 Good words are honeycombs of honey; and the sweetness of them is healing for the soul.
PRO 16:25 There are ways that seem to be straight to a man, however the finalities of them look into the lower branch of Hades.
PRO 16:26 A man in toils toils for himself; and expels destruction from him.
PRO 16:27 However the crooked man wears destruction upon his own mouth. A foolish man digs evils for himself; and upon his own lips treasures up fire.
PRO 16:28 A crooked man spreads evils, and by the torch of treachery lights a fire for evils, and parts friends.
PRO 16:29 A man who is a lawbreaker puts friends to test, and takes them ways not good.
PRO 16:30 Fixing firmly his eyes, he devises perverted things; and he confirms with his lips all the evils - this man is a furnace of evil.
PRO 16:31 The crown of boasting is old age, and it is found in the ways of righteousness.
PRO 16:32 Better a lenient man than a strong man; and a man of intelligence than one having a great farm. And the one holding his anger is better than one overtaking a city.
PRO 16:33 Into enfolded arms come all things to the unjust; but all the just things are from the LORD.
PRO 17:1 Better a morsel with satisfaction in peace, than a house full of many good things, and unjust things offered for sacrifices with battles.
PRO 17:2 An intelligent servant shall prevail over foolish masters; and among brothers he shall divide portions.
PRO 17:3 As silver and gold tried in a furnace; so choice hearts by the LORD.
PRO 17:4 A bad man obeys the tongue of lawbreakers; and an unjust man heeds lying lips.
PRO 17:5 The one ridiculing the poor provokes the one making him; and the one rejoicing at one being destroyed shall not be acquitted. But the one showing compassion shall be shown mercy.
PRO 17:6 Children's children are the crown of the aged; and children are the boasting of their fathers. The entire world of things is of the trustworthy; but for the unbelieving not an obolus.
PRO 17:7 Trustworthy lips shall not suit a foolish one, nor lying lips to the just.
PRO 17:8 Instruction to the ones employing it is a favorable wage; and where ever it shall turn, the way shall be prosperous.
PRO 17:9 The one who hides offences seeks friendship; but the one who detests hiding it sets apart friends and family members.
PRO 17:10 Intimidation breaks down the heart of the intelligent; but a foolish one being whipped perceives not.
PRO 17:11 Disputes arise with every evil man; but the LORD shall send forth an unmerciful angel against him.
PRO 17:12 Anxiety shall fall unto an intelligent man; but the foolish ones shall argue evil things.
PRO 17:13 The one who repays evil things for good things, evil things shall not be moved from out of his house.
PRO 17:14 The sovereignty of righteousness shall give authority to words; but faction and fighting lead to lack.
PRO 17:15 The one who judges the unjust as a just one, or the just one as an unjust one, is unclean and abominable before God.
PRO 17:16 Why did riches exist to a foolish one? for the heartless will not be able to acquire wisdom. The one who makes his own house high seeks destruction; and the one being crooked to learn shall fall into evils.
PRO 17:17 For all time let the friend exist to you! Let the brothers be profitable in distresses, for this favor they were born!
PRO 17:18 A foolish man claps and rejoices over himself, as also the one guaranteeing a loan by surety for his own friend.
PRO 17:19 The one fond of sinning rejoices in fights;
PRO 17:20 and the hard-hearted one does not meet with good things. A man with a changeable tongue will fall into evils;
PRO 17:21 and the heart of a foolish one is grief to its possessor. A father is not glad over an uninstructed son; but an intelligent son gladdens his mother.
PRO 17:22 A heart being glad makes to be in good health; but a distressing man dries the bones.
PRO 17:23 One receiving gifts in enfolded arms unjustly does not greatly prosper in the ways; and an impious one turns aside the ways of righteousness.
PRO 17:24 The countenance of a wise man is discerning; but the eyes of the foolish one are unto the uttermost parts of the earth.
PRO 17:25 A foolish son is anger to a father, and grief to the one birthing him.
PRO 17:26 To penalize a just man is not good; nor is it sacred to plot against just monarchs.
PRO 17:27 The one sparing to let go a hard word is an arbitrator; and a lenient man is intelligent.
PRO 17:28 To an unthinking man asking, wisdom shall be imputed; and any dumb man speechless doing for himself. shall seem to be intelligent.
PRO 18:1 A man wanting to separate from friends seeks excuses; but at all time he will be reviled.
PRO 18:2 One lacking of sense has not a need for wisdom; for rather he is led by folly.
PRO 18:3 Whenever an impious one should come into a depth of evils, he pays no attention, and there comes upon him dishonor and scorn.
PRO 18:4 A word in the heart of a man is deep water; and a river and a spring of life jump up.
PRO 18:5 To admire the face of an impious one is not good, nor is it sacred to turn aside the just one in a judgment.
PRO 18:6 Lips of a foolish one lead him into evils; and his bold mouth calls unto death.
PRO 18:7 The mouth of a foolish one is destruction to him, and his lips are a snare for his soul.
PRO 18:8 Lazy ones are thrown down by fear; and the souls of effeminate ones shall hunger.
PRO 18:9 The one not repairing himself by his works is brother of the one laying himself waste.
PRO 18:10 The name of the LORD is of great strength; and the just ones are raised up high running up to it.
PRO 18:11 The substance of a rich man is a fortified city; and its glory overshadows greatly.
PRO 18:12 4253 proBefore destruction the heart of a man is raised up high, and before glory it is humbled.
PRO 18:13 The one who answers a word before hearing the matter, it is folly and scorn to him.
PRO 18:14 An intelligent attendant calms the rage of a man; but a faint hearted man, who can endure.
PRO 18:15 The heart of an intelligent man acquires perception; and ears of the wise seek insight.
PRO 18:16 A gift of a man widens him, and sits him by monarchs.
PRO 18:17 A just one is an accuser of himself at the beginning of speaking; but when ever the opponent demands attention he is reproved.
PRO 18:18 The lot ceases disputes, and among the monarchs it defines the bounds.
PRO 18:19 A brother being helped by a brother is as a high and fortified city, and is strong as a well founded palace.
PRO 18:20 From fruits of the mouth a man fills his belly; and from fruits of his lips he shall be filled up.
PRO 18:21 Death and life are in the handle of the tongue; and the ones holding it shall eat of its fruits.
PRO 18:22 The one who found a good wife found favors, and received happiness from the LORD. The one who casts out a good woman, casts out good things; but the one holding on to an adulteress, is a foolish one and an impious one.
PRO 18:23 The needy utter sounds of supplications; but the rich man responds harsh.
PRO 18:24 A man having friends is for friendship; and there is a friend cleaving to over a brother.
PRO 19:1 Better is a poor one going in his simplicity, than one crooked of his lips, and he is unthinking.
PRO 19:2 And even a soul without higher knowledge is not good; and the one hastening with the feet sins.
PRO 19:3 The folly of a man lays waste his ways; and he blames God in his heart.
PRO 19:4 Riches add many friends; but the poor one is forsaken even by the friend that exists.
PRO 19:5 A lying witness shall not be unpunished; and the one accusing unjustly shall not escape.
PRO 19:6 Many attend to the persons of a king; but every evil man becomes scorn to men.
PRO 19:7 Every one who detests a poor brother, also will be far from friendship. Good insight approaches to the ones perceiving it; and an intelligent man will find it. The many doing evil perfect a work of evil; and the one who aggravates by words shall not be delivered.
PRO 19:8 The one acquiring intelligence loves himself; and the one guarding intelligence shall find good.
PRO 19:9 A lying witness shall not be unpunished; and who ever shall kindle evil shall perish by it.
PRO 19:10 Luxury is not advantageous to a foolish one, nor is it seemly if a servant should begin to be in power by insult.
PRO 19:11 A merciful man is lenient, and his boasting comes upon lawbreakers.
PRO 19:12 The intimidation of a king is likened to a lion's gnashing; but as dew upon grass so is his making one happy.
PRO 19:13 A foolish son is shame to a father; and vows paid out from the hire of a mistress are not pure.
PRO 19:14 A house and substance is portioned by fathers to children; but by the LORD a wife is accorded to a man.
PRO 19:15 Dread holds down an effeminate man; and the soul of the idle hungers.
PRO 19:16 The one who keeps the commandment gives heed to his own soul; but the one disdaining his own ways shall perish.
PRO 19:17 The one showing mercy on the poor lends to God; and according to his gift he shall make recompense to him.
PRO 19:18 Correct your son, for thus he will be confident! But do not lift up the soul to insult!
PRO 19:19 An evil-minded man shall be penalized much; and if there should be injury, he shall add even his life.
PRO 19:20 Hear, O son, the instruction of your father, that you should become wise unto your last days!
PRO 19:21 Many devices are in the heart of a man; but the counsel of the LORD abides into the eon.
PRO 19:22 Charity is a fruit to a man; but better a poor just one, than a rich liar.
PRO 19:23 Fear of the LORD is life to a man; but the one without fear shall lodge in places where knowledge is not overseen.
PRO 19:24 The man hiding his unjust hands in his enfolded arm, not even will he in any way bring them to his mouth.
PRO 19:25 A foolish one being whipped of his mischievousness will be more clever; but if you should reprove an intelligent man he shall comprehend for good sense.
PRO 19:26 The one dishonoring his father, and thrusting away his mother, will be disgraced and reviled.
PRO 19:27 A son ceasing to guard the instruction of a father, shall meditate upon evil sayings.
PRO 19:28 The one guaranteeing a loan of a foolish child insults the ordinance; and the mouth of the impious ones shall swallow down judgments.
PRO 19:29 Whips are prepared to the unrestrained; and punishments in like manner to foolish ones.
PRO 20:1 Unrestrained wine, and outrageous intoxication, and all being laid waste, shall not be wise.
PRO 20:2 The intimidation of a king differs not from the rage of a lion; and the one provoking him even is intermixing sins against his own soul.
PRO 20:3 It is glory to man to turn from reviling; but every foolish one is closely joined to such.
PRO 20:4 Berating a lazy one does not shame him; likewise also is the one borrowing grain in harvest.
PRO 20:5 Counsel is deep water for the heart of a man; and an intelligent man shall draw it out.
PRO 20:6 A great man, and a merciful man is precious; but it is work to find a trustworthy man.
PRO 20:7 The one who behaves unblemished in righteousness, shall leave his children blessed.
PRO 20:8 Whenever a just king shall sit upon a throne, not any evil withstands before his eyes.
PRO 20:9 Who shall boast to have the heart pure? Or who shall speak openly to be clean from sins?
PRO 20:10 An untrue weight, great and small, and untrue double measures are unclean before the LORD - even both, and the one making them.
PRO 20:11 The young man with a sacred man will be bound hand and foot in his practices, and his way will be straight.
PRO 20:12 An ear hears, and an eye sees, and both are works of the LORD.
PRO 20:13 Do not love to speak ill, that you should not be lifted away! But open wide your eyes, and be filled up of breads!
PRO 20:14 Bad, bad, says the one buying, but when he should depart then he shall boast.
PRO 20:15 There is gold and multitude of very costly stones; and the valued vessel - lips of understanding.
PRO 20:16 Remove the garment of the one guaranteeing a loan for a stranger, and take security away from him for a strange woman!
PRO 20:17 Bread of falsehood agreeable to man, and thereupon his mouth shall be filled up of gravel.
PRO 20:18 A device with counsel solidifies, and let war be with guidance!
PRO 20:19 The one uncovering counsel in a sanhedrin goes double-tongued; and be not mixed with the one widening the things of his own lips!
PRO 20:20 One speaking evil of father or mother, his torch shall be extinguished; and the pupils of his eyes shall see darkness.
PRO 20:21 A portion being hastily gotten at first, in the finalities shall not be blessed.
PRO 20:22 You should not say, I will pay back the enemy; but wait on the LORD that he should help you.
PRO 20:23 A double weight is an abomination to the LORD; and a deceitful yoke balance scale is not good before him.
PRO 20:24 The footsteps of a man are straightened by the LORD; but a mortal, how can he comprehend his ways?
PRO 20:25 It is a snare to a man quickly to sanctify anything of his own; for after the vowing, changing of the mind happens.
PRO 20:26 A wise king is a winnower of impious ones, and he puts the wheel to them.
PRO 20:27 The light of the LORD is the breath of men, which searches the storerooms of the bellies.
PRO 20:28 Charity and truth are a guard to a king, and they will surround his throne in righteousness.
PRO 20:29 An ornament to young men is wisdom; and the glory of older men is gray hair.
PRO 20:30 Bruises and breaks meet with bad men; and calamities shall come to the storerooms of their bellies.
PRO 21:1 As a rush of water, so is the heart of a king in the hand of God; where ever wishing he should nod, there he leans it.
PRO 21:2 Every man appears just to himself; but the LORD straightens out the heart.
PRO 21:3 To do just things and to be truthful are more pleasing to God, rather than a sacrifice of blood.
PRO 21:4 A high-minded man is bold-hearted in insolence; and the torch of the impious ones is sin.
PRO 21:5 The thoughts of the vigorous are in plenty; and every one hastening is unto less.
PRO 21:6 The one producing treasures by a lying tongue pursues vanity, and comes unto the snare of death.
PRO 21:7 Ruin to the impious ones is welcomed as a guest; for they do not prefer to do the just things.
PRO 21:8 To the crooked ones, God sends crooked ways; for his works are pure and straight.
PRO 21:9 Better to live upon a corner of the housetop in the open air, than houses being whitewashed with injustice, and in a profane house.
PRO 21:10 The soul of an impious one desires evils; it shall not be shown mercy by anyone of men.
PRO 21:11 With the penalizing of an unrestrained man, the guileless man becomes more clever; but by perceiving, a wise one will receive knowledge.
PRO 21:12 A just one perceives the hearts of the impious ones; and he treats the impious ones as worthless in their evils.
PRO 21:13 The one who shuts up his ears to not heed the weak, even himself shall call out, and there will not be the one listening.
PRO 21:14 A private present prostrates angers; but the one sparing gifts shall raise up strong rage.
PRO 21:15 It is gladness of the just ones to have equity; but a sacred one is unclean by evildoers.
PRO 21:16 A man wandering from the way of righteousness shall rest in the gathering of giants.
PRO 21:17 A man lacking, loves gladness, being fond of wine and oil in wealth.
PRO 21:18 And the rubbish of a just one is a lawless one, and for upright ones a lawbreaker.
PRO 21:19 Better to live in the wilderness than with a wife being combative and talkative and prone to anger.
PRO 21:20 A desirable treasure shall rest upon the mouth of a wise one; but foolish men will swallow it.
PRO 21:21 The way of righteousness and charity shall find life and glory.
PRO 21:22 A wise one mounts against fortified cities, and demolishes the fortress upon which the impious ones relied upon.
PRO 21:23 The one who guards his mouth and the tongue carefully keeps his soul from affliction.
PRO 21:24 A bold and self-willed and ostentatious man is called pestilent; and the man who resents is a lawbreaker.
PRO 21:25 Desires kill the lazy; for his hands resolve not to do anything.
PRO 21:26 An impious one lusts evil lusts the whole day; but the just one desires mercy, and he pities unsparingly.
PRO 21:27 Sacrifices of the impious ones are an abomination to the LORD; for even they bring them unlawfully.
PRO 21:28 A lying witness shall perish; a man who is subject will speak guardedly.
PRO 21:29 An impious man impudently stands in front; but the upright man himself perceives his ways.
PRO 21:30 There is not wisdom, there is not courage, there is not counsel to the impious one.
PRO 21:31 A horse is prepared for a day of battle; but help is by the LORD.
PRO 22:1 A good name is more preferred than many riches; and good favor over silver and gold.
PRO 22:2 Rich and poor meet with one another; but the LORD made both.
PRO 22:3 A clever man seeing the wicked forcefully being punished is himself corrected; but the foolish ones passing by are penalized.
PRO 22:4 The fear of the LORD is the generation of wisdom, and riches, and glory, and life.
PRO 22:5 Thistles and snares are in crooked ways; but the one guarding his own soul is at a distance from them.
PRO 22:6 Dedicate the child according to his way; and indeed if he should grow old, he will not depart from it.
PRO 22:7 The rich shall control the poor, and servants will lend to their own masters.
PRO 22:8 The one sowing heedlessly, harvests bad things; and the calamity of his works he shall complete. A happy man and a giver God loves; and the folly of his works he shall end.
PRO 22:9 The one showing mercy on the poor nourishes himself; for of his own breads he gives to the poor. The one giving gifts procures victory and honor; however it removes the life of the ones possessing.
PRO 22:10 Cast out from the sanhedrin the mischievous one, and altercation shall go out together with him! For whenever he sits in the sanhedrin he dishonors all.
PRO 22:11 The LORD loves sacred hearts; and all unblemished ones are acceptable to him in their ways. A king tends with his lips.
PRO 22:12 But the eyes of the LORD carefully keep good sense; but he treats as worthless the words of a lawbreaker.
PRO 22:13 The lazy one makes an excuse and says, There is a lion in the streets, and in the squares are murderers.
PRO 22:14 The mouth of a lawbreaker is a deep cesspool; and the one being detested by the LORD shall fall into it.
PRO 22:15 Thoughtlessness lights up the heart of a young person; but the rod and instruction will drive it far from him.
PRO 22:16 The one extorting the needy produces many evils for himself; and gives to the rich to make it less.
PRO 22:17 Set aside your ear to the words of the wise, and hear my words! And set your heart that you should know!
PRO 22:18 for they are good, and if you put them in your heart, they shall gladden you at the same time upon your lips;
PRO 22:19 that your hope should be upon the LORD, and he shall make known to you his way;
PRO 22:20 but also you register them to yourself, even thrice for counsel and knowledge!
PRO 22:21 I teach you then a true word, and knowledge good to hearken to; for you to answer words of truth to the ones propounding things to you.
PRO 22:22 Do not repel the needy, for he is poor! And you shall not dishonor the weak at the gates.
PRO 22:23 For the LORD will arbitrate his cause, and you shall rescue your soul against reprisal.
PRO 22:24 Be not a companion to a man inclined to rage! and a friend prone to anger do not lodge with!
PRO 22:25 lest at any time you should learn of his ways, and should receive nooses for your soul.
PRO 22:26 Do not give yourself for surety, shaming the face!
PRO 22:27 For if you should not have from any place to pay, they shall take the bedding under your sides.
PRO 22:28 Do not remove the everlasting boundaries which your fathers set!
PRO 22:29 An observant man, and one sharp in his works must stand beside kings, and should not stand beside dull men.
PRO 23:1 If you should sit to have supper at the table of a monarch, intelligibly comprehend the things being placed near to you!
PRO 23:2 And give attention to your hand, beholding that it is a must for you to make preparations for such things! But if you are insatiable,
PRO 23:3 do not desire his food! for these have a false life.
PRO 23:4 Do not reach forth, being needy, to the rich; but in your insight be at a distance!
PRO 23:5 If you set your eye upon him, he shall not at all appear; for there are carefully prepared for him wings as of an eagle, and he returns to the house being set for him.
PRO 23:6 Do not dine with a bewitching man, nor desire his foods;
PRO 23:7 for in which manner as if any may swallow down a hair, thus he eats and drinks; nor should you bring him to yourself, nor you should eat your morsel with him,
PRO 23:8 for he will vomit it forth, and lay waste your good words.
PRO 23:9 Do not speak into the ears of a foolish one, lest at any time he sneer at discerning your words!
PRO 23:10 You should not transpose the everlasting boundaries; and to the possession of orphans you should not enter to take;
PRO 23:11 for the one ransoming them is the LORD; he is strong, and he arbitrates their case with you.
PRO 23:12 Give your heart for instruction, and prepare your ears for words of good sense!
PRO 23:13 You should not be at a distance to correct the simple; for if you strike him with a rod, in no way should he die;
PRO 23:14 forasmuch as you struck him with a rod, then you rescued his soul from death.
PRO 23:15 O son, if you should make your heart wise, you shall gladden also my heart;
PRO 23:16 and the words of your lips shall spend time with my lips, if they should be straight.
PRO 23:17 Let not your heart be jealous of sinners, but be in the fear of the LORD the whole day!
PRO 23:18 For if you should give heed to these things there will be a progeny for you, and your hope will not leave.
PRO 23:19 Hear, O son, and be wise, and straighten out the reflections of your heart!
PRO 23:20 Do not be a winebibber, nor stretch out couplings, nor purchasings of meats!
PRO 23:21 For every intoxicated one and whoremonger shall be poor; and every sleepy one shall put on torn and ragged garments.
PRO 23:22 Hear, O son, the father engendering you, and do not disdain that your mother has grown old!
PRO 23:23 Acquire truth! and you should not thrust away wisdom and instruction and understanding.
PRO 23:24 A just father nourishes well; and his soul is gladdened by a wise son.
PRO 23:25 Let your father and mother be glad over you; and let the one who gave birth to you rejoice!
PRO 23:26 Give to me, O son, your heart, and let your eyes give heed to my ways!
PRO 23:27 For a strange house is a cask having been drilled; and a strange well is narrow.
PRO 23:28 For this one suddenly shall perish, and every lawbreaker shall be consumed.
PRO 23:29 To whom is there woe? to whom a tumult? to whom litigations? to whom rancor and intrigue? to whom breaks without cause? to whom dark colored eyes?
PRO 23:30 Is it not the ones lingering in wines? Is it not the ones prowling where parties happen? Do not be intoxicated by wine, but consort with just men, and consort in the promenades!
PRO 23:31 For if in the bowls and the cups you should give your eyes, afterwards you shall walk more naked than a pestle.
PRO 23:32 But at last it will be as if being struck by a serpent he stretches out, and as if by a horned serpent the poison diffuses throughout him.
PRO 23:33 Whenever your eyes behold the strange woman, your mouth then speaks perverse things;
PRO 23:34 and you shall recline as if in the heart of the sea; and as a navigator in a great swell;
PRO 23:35 and you shall say, They beat me, and I pained not; and, They mocked me, but I knew not. When will it be dawn, that coming I shall seek after one who shall go together with me to drink?
PRO 24:1 O son, you should not be jealous of evil men, nor should you desire to be with them.
PRO 24:2 For their heart meditates on lying, and their lips speak of miseries.
PRO 24:3 A house is built with wisdom, and erected with skillfulness.
PRO 24:4 With good sense the storerooms are filled up of all valuable and good wealth.
PRO 24:5 A wise one is better than a strong man; a man of intelligence than one having a great farm.
PRO 24:6 War takes place with guidance, but help comes with the heart of a counselor.
PRO 24:7 Wisdom and good insight are in the gates of the wise. The wise do not turn aside from the law of the LORD, but consider things in the sanhedrins; but the uninstructed ones meet with death,
PRO 24:9 but a foolish one dies in sins. Uncleanness to a pestilent man -
PRO 24:10 he shall be contaminated in the evil day, and in the day of affliction, until whenever he should cease.
PRO 24:11 Rescue the ones being led for death, and buy off the ones for slaying! You should not spare.
PRO 24:12 But if you should say, I do not know this; know that the LORD knows the heart of all - even the one shaping the breath in all, he knows all. He is the one who renders to each according to his works.
PRO 24:13 Eat honey, O son, for the honeycomb is good, that your throat should be sweetened!
PRO 24:14 For thus you shall perceive wisdom in your soul; for if you should find it, your decease will be good, and hope shall not forsake you.
PRO 24:15 You should not lead an impious one to a pasture of the just ones; nor should you be deceived in filling the belly.
PRO 24:16 For seven times the just one shall fall, and rise up; but the impious ones will weaken in evils.
PRO 24:17 If your enemy should fall, you should not rejoice over him; and in his fall be not lifted up!
PRO 24:18 For the LORD shall see, and it will not be pleasing to him; and he will return his rage unto him.
PRO 24:19 Do not rejoice over ones doing evil, nor be jealous of sinners!
PRO 24:20 For not in any way shall there be a progeny of wicked ones; but the torch of the impious ones shall be extinguished.
PRO 24:21 Fear God, O son, and the king! And to neither one of them should you resist persuasion.
PRO 24:22 For suddenly they will pay the impious ones; and the punishment of both, who shall know?
PRO 24:23 But these things I say to you, to the wise, to realize that to stand in awe of a person in a judgment is not good.
PRO 24:24 The one having said, The impious one is a just one, will be accursed among the peoples, and detested among the nations.
PRO 24:25 But the ones reproving him shall appear the best; and a good blessing shall come upon them;
PRO 24:26 but lips shall kiss the ones answering with good words.
PRO 24:27 Prepare your works for the departure, and make preparations for the field, and go after me, and you shall rebuild your house!
PRO 24:28 Do not be a lying witness against your fellow-countryman, nor open wide with your lips!
PRO 24:29 You should not say, In which manner he treated me, I shall treat him; and I shall pay him who wronged me.
PRO 24:30 A foolish man is as a farm, and a man lacking of sense is as a vineyard;
PRO 24:31 if you should let it go barren, then it shall become entirely overgrown, and failing takes place, and his fences of stones shall be razed.
PRO 24:32 Afterwards I changed my mind; I looked to choose instruction.
PRO 24:33 I slumber a little; and I sleep soundly a little, and I fold my hands to my breasts a little.
PRO 24:34 But if you should do this, poverty shall come before you, and lack as a good runner.
PRO 25:1 These are the impartial parables of Solomon, which the friends of Hezekiah the king of Judea wrote out.
PRO 25:2 The glory of God hides a matter; but the glory of a king esteems things.
PRO 25:3 Heaven is high, and the earth is deep; but the heart of a king is unascertained.
PRO 25:4 Beat unproven silver, and it shall be cleansed clean all together!
PRO 25:5 Slay the impious ones from the presence of a king, and you shall set up his throne in righteousness!
PRO 25:6 Do not act ostentatiously in the presence of a king, nor stand in places of mighty ones!
PRO 25:7 For better the saying to you, Ascend to me! than to humble you in the presence of a mighty one. What you beheld with your eyes, speak!
PRO 25:8 Do not fall into a fight quickly, lest you should change your mind at the last! When ever a friend should berate you,
PRO 25:9 withdraw to the rear - do not disdain him;
PRO 25:10 lest indeed the friend should berate you, and your fight and hatred do not go away, but will be to you equal of death! Favor and friendship frees, which you give heed to yourself, that you should not be reviled! But keep your ways conciliatory!
PRO 25:11 As a golden apple in a pendant of sardius, so is it to speak a wise word.
PRO 25:12 In an ear-ring of gold, a very costly sardius is bound set.; so a wise word to a heedful ear.
PRO 25:13 As a delivery of snow in the harvest for sweltering heat, so a trustworthy messenger benefits the ones sending him; for the souls of the ones dealing with him derive benefit.
PRO 25:14 As winds, and clouds, and rains are apparent, so the men boasting over false portions.
PRO 25:15 Success comes to kings by long-suffering, and a soft tongue breaks bones.
PRO 25:16 In finding honey, eat what is enough, lest at any time being overfilled, you should vomit forth!
PRO 25:17 Sparingly bring your foot to your own friend, lest at any time he be filled of you, and should detest you!
PRO 25:18 As a club, and a sword, and a pointed bow, so also the man bearing false witness against his friend.
PRO 25:19 An evil way and the foot of a lawbreaker shall be destroyed in an evil day.
PRO 25:20 As vinegar draws hurtful, so passion falling on a body distresses the heart. As a moth in a garment, and a worm in wood, so distress of a man hurts the heart.
PRO 25:21 If your enemy hungers, nourish him! If he thirsts, give him to drink!
PRO 25:22 For doing this you shall heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD will recompense to you good things.
PRO 25:23 The north wind arouses clouds; and the face of an impudent tongue aggravates.
PRO 25:24 Better to live upon the corner of a roof, than with a reviling wife in a common house.
PRO 25:25 As cold water is kind to a thirsting soul, so a good message from a land far off.
PRO 25:26 As if any one may shut up a spring, and may lay waste an exiting of water; so it is unbecoming for a just one to fall before an impious one.
PRO 25:27 To eat much honey is not good; but it behooves to esteem honorable words.
PRO 25:28 As a city with walls having been thrown down and unwalled, so a man who acts in anything not with counsel.
PRO 26:1 As dew in harvest, and as rain in summer, so honor is not to a foolish one.
PRO 26:2 As birds and sparrows spread out to fly, so a vain oath shall not come unto one thing.
PRO 26:3 As a whip to a horse, and a spur to a donkey, so a rod to a lawbreaking nation.
PRO 26:4 Do not give an answer to a foolish one according to that one's folly, lest you should become likened to him!
PRO 26:5 But answer to a foolish one to the folly of that one, lest he should appear wise unto himself!
PRO 26:6 The one sending a word through a foolish messenger shall cause scorn by his own ways.
PRO 26:7 Remove the goings of legs, and proverbs from out of the mouth of foolish ones.
PRO 26:8 One who binds up a stone in a sling, is likened to giving glory to a foolish one.
PRO 26:9 Thorn-bushes germinate in the hand of the intoxicated, and servitude in the hand of the foolish ones.
PRO 26:10 All the flesh of foolish ones is tossed much by a storm, for their ecstasy is destroyed.
PRO 26:11 As a dog whenever it comes upon its own vomit, and becomes detested, so a foolish one returning to his own evil, unto his own sin.
PRO 26:12 I beheld a man seeming to be wise unto himself, however a foolish one had more hope rather than he.
PRO 26:13 The lazy one says when being sent into the way, A lion is in the ways, and in the squares are murderers.
PRO 26:14 As a door turns upon the hinge, so the lazy one turns upon his bed.
PRO 26:15 The lazy one hiding the hand in his bosom shall not be able to bring it unto the mouth.
PRO 26:16 The lazy one appears wiser to himself in fulfilling transmitting a message.
PRO 26:17 As the one holding the tail of a dog, so the one setting himself over a stranger's case.
PRO 26:18 As the ones needing healing propound words unto men, and the first one meeting the word shall be tripped up.
PRO 26:19 Thus are all the ones lying in wait for their own friends;, and whenever they should be caught in the act, they say that, In playing I acted.
PRO 26:20 With much wood fire flourishes; but where there is not a man at variance with others a fight is stilled.
PRO 26:21 A grate for coals, and wood for a fire; and a reviling man for a disturbance to a fight.
PRO 26:22 Words of mischievous ones are soft, but these beat into the inner chambers of the intestines.
PRO 26:23 Silver given with treachery is as a potsherd esteemed. Smooth lips cover a distressed heart.
PRO 26:24 An enemy weeping assents to all things with his lips, but in the heart he contrives treachery.
PRO 26:25 If the enemy should beseech you with a great voice, do not yield to him; for there are seven wickednesses in his heart.
PRO 26:26 The one hiding his hatred stands together with treachery, and he conceals the things of his own well-known sins in the sanhedrin.
PRO 26:27 The one digging a pit for his neighbor shall fall into it; and the one rolling a stone, rolls it upon himself.
PRO 26:28 A lying tongue detests truth; and an open-mouthed mouth makes commotion.
PRO 27:1 Do not boast the things for tomorrow; for you know not what the coming day shall give birth to!
PRO 27:2 Let the one near laud you, and not your mouth; a stranger, and not your lips!
PRO 27:3 A stone is heavy, and sand hard to bear; but anger of a foolish one is heavier than both.
PRO 27:4 Rage is unmerciful, and anger is sharp; but no one stands before jealousy.
PRO 27:5 Revealing reproofs is better than hiding friendship.
PRO 27:6 More worthy of trust are wounds of a friend, than voluntary kisses of an enemy.
PRO 27:7 A soul being in fullness mocks honeycombs; but a soul lacking, even the bitter things appear sweet.
PRO 27:8 As a bird whenever it flies down from out of its own nest; so a man is enslaved whenever he estranges himself from out of his own places.
PRO 27:9 Perfumes, and wines, and incenses make the heart happy; but the soul breaks down by adverse incidents.
PRO 27:10 Your friend or paternal friend you should not abandon; but to the house of your brother you should not enter in adversity; better a friend near, than a brother living far.
PRO 27:11 Become wise, O son, that the heart should gladden me, and turn reviling words from you!
PRO 27:12 A clever man, of evils coming along, conceals himself; but foolish ones coming along, shall pay a penalty.
PRO 27:13 Remove his garment, for an insulting man passed by, one who lays waste a stranger's goods!
PRO 27:14 Who ever shall bless a friend in the morning with a great voice, shall not seem to differ from one cursing.
PRO 27:15 Drops of rain on a day of winter shall cast a man from out of his house; likewise also a reviling wife drives a man from out of his own house.
PRO 27:16 The north wind is hard, but is called by name fittingly.
PRO 27:17 Iron sharpens iron; and a man sharpens the face of his companion.
PRO 27:18 The one who plants a fig-tree shall eat the fruits of it; and the one who guards his own master shall be esteemed.
PRO 27:19 As faces are not likened to other faces, so not even are the hearts likened to other men's.
PRO 27:20 Hades and destruction are not filled up; likewise also the eyes of the insatiable man. One fixing the eye is an abomination to the LORD, and the uninstructed ones are immoderate in tongue.
PRO 27:21 Proving silver and gold is through burning by fire; but a man is tried by the mouth of ones lauding him.
PRO 27:22 If you whip a foolish one in the midst of a sanhedrin, dishonoring him, in no way shall his folly be removed.
PRO 27:23 Knowingly, you shall recognize things concerning the lives of your flock, and you shall set your heart over your herds.
PRO 27:24 For might and strength to a man are not into the eon; nor does he deliver it up from generation to generation.
PRO 27:25 Care for the green things in the field, and you shall shear the herbage! And gather together grass of the mountainous area,
PRO 27:26 that you should have sheep's wool for clothes! Esteem a field, that there might be lambs to you!
PRO 27:27 O son, you have strong sayings from me for your life, and for the life of your attendants.
PRO 28:1 An impious one flees with no one pursuing; but a just one is secure as a lion.
PRO 28:2 Because of the sins of impious ones, litigations arise; but a clever man extinguishes them.
PRO 28:3 A vigorous man with impious deeds extorts the poor as a fierce and unprofitable rain.
PRO 28:4 Thus the ones abandoning the law laud impiety; but the ones loving the law put a wall around themselves.
PRO 28:5 Evil men do not comprehend equity; but the ones seeking the LORD perceive in all.
PRO 28:6 Better a poor man going in truth, than a rich liar.
PRO 28:7 A discerning son keeps the law; but the one who tends carnality dishonors his father.
PRO 28:8 The one multiplying his wealth with interest and usury, gathers it to the one showing mercy on the poor.
PRO 28:9 The one turning aside his ear to not hear the law, even he abhors his own prayer.
PRO 28:10 The one who wanders upright men in an evil way, shall himself fall into corruption; and the lawless ones shall go through good things, and they shall not enter to them.
PRO 28:11 A rich man is wise to himself; but an intelligent needy man shall condemn him.
PRO 28:12 Through the help of the just ones, much glory comes to pass; but in the places of the impious ones, men are being captured.
PRO 28:13 The one covering over his impiety, his way shall not be prospered; but the one describing and reproving shall be loved.
PRO 28:14 Blessed is a man who is struck with awe of all things through veneration; but the hard of heart shall fall into evils.
PRO 28:15 A lion hungering, and a wolf thirsting, is the one who is sovereign of a destitute nation being poor.
PRO 28:16 A king lacking revenue is a great extortioner; but the one detesting injustice shall live a long time.
PRO 28:17 The one guaranteeing a loan of a man under accusation of murder will be an exile, and not in safety.
PRO 28:18 The one going justly is helped; but the one going by crooked ways shall be entangled.
PRO 28:19 The one working his own land shall be filled of breads; but the one pursuing ease shall be filled with poverty.
PRO 28:20 A man worthy of trust in many things shall be blessed; but the evil one shall not be unpunished.
PRO 28:21 The one who does not feel respect for persons of the just ones is not good; such a one will deliver over a man for a morsel of bread.
PRO 28:22 A bewitching man hastens to be rich, and does not know that a merciful man will prevail over him.
PRO 28:23 The one reproving a man's ways shall have favors, rather than the flatterer with the tongue.
PRO 28:24 The one who throws off his father or mother, and assumes he does not sin - this one is partner of an impious man.
PRO 28:25 An insatiable man judges in vain; but the one yielding upon the LORD will be in care.
PRO 28:26 One who yields to a rash heart, such a one is a foolish one; but one who goes in wisdom shall be delivered.
PRO 28:27 The one who gives to the poor shall not be in want; but the one who turns his eye will be in much perplexity.
PRO 28:28 In the places of the impious ones the just ones moan; but in the destruction of those the just ones shall be multiplied.
PRO 29:1 Better a man of reproofs, than a man hard-necked; for suddenly there is not a healing blazing up for him.
PRO 29:2 In the lauding of the just ones peoples will be glad; but men moan over the rules of the impious ones.
PRO 29:3 A man fond of wisdom gladdens his father; but the one tending harlots destroys wealth.
PRO 29:4 A just king establishes regions; but a lawbreaking man razes them.
PRO 29:5 The one who makes preparations with a net against the person of his own friend puts it around his own feet.
PRO 29:6 A great snare is set against a man sinning; but a just one will be in joy and in gladness.
PRO 29:7 A just one has knowledge to judge for the destitute; but the impious one does not comprehend knowledge; and to the poor there does not exist the mind of an arbitrator.
PRO 29:8 Mischievous men burn away a city; but the wise turn away anger.
PRO 29:9 A wise man judges nations; but a heedless man, in provoking to anger, ridicules and is not struck with awe.
PRO 29:10 Men being partners of blood shall detest the sacred; but the upright will seek after his soul.
PRO 29:11 The foolish one brings forth his entire rage; but a wise one stores up in part.
PRO 29:12 A king hearkening in an unjust matter makes all the ones under him lawbreakers.
PRO 29:13 A money-lender and debtor, when one another come together the LORD commits to oversee both.
PRO 29:14 A king judging the poor in truth; his throne shall be established for a good testimony.
PRO 29:15 Strokes and reproofs give wisdom; but a child wandering shames his parents.
PRO 29:16 Of impious ones being many, many sins take place; but the just ones - of the falling of those fear takes place.
PRO 29:17 Correct your son, and he will cause you rest; and he will give a decoration to your soul.
PRO 29:18 In no way should there exist an expositor to a lawbreaking nation; but the one keeping the law is most blessed.
PRO 29:19 A recalcitrant domestic servant will not be corrected by words; for even if he comprehends he will not obey.
PRO 29:20 If you should behold a man hasty in words, know that the foolish one has hope rather than he!
PRO 29:21 The one who lives wastefully from child hood will be a domestic servant; and at the end will grieve over himself.
PRO 29:22 A man inclined to rage digs up altercation; and a man prone to anger gouges up sin.
PRO 29:23 Insolence abases a man; but the LORD establishes the humble-minded in glory.
PRO 29:24 The one who shares with a thief detests his own soul. And if an oath having been set before ones hearing, but they should not announce it,
PRO 29:25 they, fearing and shaming men, shall be tripped up; but the one yielding upon the LORD shall be glad. Impiety in man makes a man trip; but the one yielding unto the master shall be preserved.
PRO 29:26 Many attend to the persons of leaders; but by the LORD the just thing happens to a man.
PRO 29:27 A just man is an abomination to an unjust man; and an abomination to the lawless one is a straight way.
PRO 30:1 Thus speaks the man to the ones trusting in God. And now I will cease,
PRO 30:2 for I am all together most foolish of men, and the intelligence of man is not in me.
PRO 30:3 God has taught me wisdom, and I know the knowledge of the holies.
PRO 30:4 Who ascended into the heaven, and came down? Who brought together the winds in his bosom? Who bundled up waters in his cloak? Who holds all the extremities of the earth? What name is given to him? Or what name to his children that you should know?
PRO 30:5 For all the words of God are purified. And he himself shields the ones venerating him.
PRO 30:6 You should not add to his words, lest he reprove you, and you should become a liar.
PRO 30:7 Two things I ask from you; you should not remove favor from me before my dying;
PRO 30:8 appoint the vain and false word far from me; and riches and poverty you should not give to me; but order up to me the things necessary, and the things to be self-sufficient;
PRO 30:9 that I should not become false in being filled up, and should say, Who sees me? Or to be in need that I shall steal, and I shall swear an oath by the name of God.
PRO 30:10 You should not deliver a bondservant into the hands of a master, lest at any time he should curse you, and you should be obliterated.
PRO 30:11 A bad progeny curses a father, and blesses not the mother.
PRO 30:12 A bad progeny judges himself as just, and washes not his going out.
PRO 30:13 A bad progeny has lofty eyes, and with his eyelids he lifts himself up.
PRO 30:14 A bad progeny has swords for teeth, and the molars as pruning knives, so as to consume the weak from the earth, and the needy of them from among men.
PRO 30:15 There were three daughters to the leech being loved in affection. These three fulfilled her not, and to the fourth it was not sufficient to say, Enough -
PRO 30:16 Hades, and passion of a woman, and earth not filled with water; and water and fire in no way shall say, It suffices.
PRO 30:17 The eye ridiculing a father, and dishonoring the old age of a mother - let the crows from the ravines cut it out, and may the young of the eagles devour it.
PRO 30:18 And there are three things impossible for me to comprehend, and the fourth I do not know -
PRO 30:19 the traces of a flying eagle, and the ways of a serpent upon a rock, and the paths of a ship passing through the sea, and the ways of a man in youth.
PRO 30:20 Such is the way of an adulterous wife. Whenever she should act in washing herself, she says not to have acted out of place.
PRO 30:21 By three things the earth is shaken, and the fourth it is not able to bear -
PRO 30:22 if a domestic servant should reign, and a foolish one should be filled of food,
PRO 30:23 and a female domestic servant, if she is cast out by her own lady, and a hateful wife if she should attain a good man.
PRO 30:24 And there are four lesser things upon the earth, and these are wiser of the wise ones -
PRO 30:25 the ants in whom there is no strength, and they prepare nourishment in summer.
PRO 30:26 And the rabbits - a nation not being strong, the ones making their own houses in the rocks.
PRO 30:27 The locust is independent, but she marches orderly from one word of command.
PRO 30:28 And the newt, with its hands sticking, and being easily caught, it dwells in the fortresses of kings.
PRO 30:29 And there are three which go prosperously, and the fourth which passes over well -
PRO 30:30 a lion cub is stronger than the beasts, which does not turn away, nor is struck with awe of any beast;
PRO 30:31 and a rooster walking about among females confidently; and a he-goat taking the lead of a flock of goats; and a king delivering a public address to a nation.
PRO 30:32 If you should let go of yourself in gladness, and should stretch out your hand for a fight, you shall be dishonored.
PRO 30:33 Extract milk, and there will be butter; but if you should pressure the nostrils there shall come forth blood; and if you should drag out words, there shall come forth litigations and fights.
PRO 31:1 My words have been spoken by God; the divine answer by a king whom his mother instructed.
PRO 31:2 What, O child, will you give heed to? What sayings of God, O first-born, to you I speak, O son? What, O child of my belly? What, O child of my vows?
PRO 31:3 You should not give your wealth to women, nor your mind and livelihood for an afterthought. Do all things with counsel! Drink wine with counsel!
PRO 31:4 The mighty ones are inclined to rage; let them not drink wine,
PRO 31:5 lest drinking they should forget wisdom, and in no way are able rightly to judge the weak!
PRO 31:6 Give intoxication to the ones in distresses, and wine to drink to the ones in griefs,
PRO 31:7 that they should forget their poverty, and of the miseries they should not be remembered any longer!
PRO 31:8 O Son, open your mouth with the word of God, and judge all fairly!
PRO 31:9 Open your mouth, and judge justly, and litigate for the needy and weak!
PRO 31:10 Who shall find a vigorous wife? For such is more esteemed than very costly stones.
PRO 31:11 The heart of her husband takes courage over her. Such a one will not be distressed by the lack of good spoils.
PRO 31:12 For she exerts energy to her husband for good, and not bad, for all the livelihood.
PRO 31:13 She makes her hands useful furling wool and flax.
PRO 31:14 She became as a ship trading far off; she gathers together her wealth.
PRO 31:15 And she rises up at nights, and appoints foods to the household, and works to the female attendants.
PRO 31:16 In viewing a farm, she buys; and from the fruits of her hands she plants a possession.
PRO 31:17 Girding up her loin strongly, she establishes her arms for work.
PRO 31:18 She tastes that it is good to work; and her lamp is not extinguished all the night.
PRO 31:19 She stretches out her cubits unto the things being advantageous; and the things of her hands she sticks to the spindle.
PRO 31:20 And she opens wide her hands to the needy, and her wrist she stretches out to the poor.
PRO 31:21 Her husband does not take thought of the things in the house whenever he passes time somewhere; for all the ones of hers are being clothed.
PRO 31:22 A double goat's hair coat she made for her husband; and from out of linen and purple material garments for herself.
PRO 31:23 And her husband is admired at the gate when ever he should sit in the sanhedrin with the aged of the land.
PRO 31:24 She makes fine linen, and gives back loincloths to the Canaanites.
PRO 31:25 She puts on strength and beauty, and is glad in the last days.
PRO 31:26 And of her mouth she opens wisely and lawfully; and her charity is in her tongue.
PRO 31:27 The pastimes to her house are roofed, and the grain of laziness she eats not.
PRO 31:28 She raises up her children, and they grow rich; and her husband praises her.
PRO 31:29 Many daughters acquired riches; many acted with ability; but you have precedence - you are elevated above all.
PRO 31:30 Allurement is false, and vain beauty is not in you. For a discerning woman is blessed; and let her praise the fear of the LORD!
PRO 31:31 Give to her from the fruits of her lips, and let her husband be praised at the gates!
ECC 1:1 The sayings of an ecclesiastic, son of David, king of Israel in Jerusalem.
ECC 1:2 Folly of follies, said the ecclesiastic, folly of follies - all things are folly.
ECC 1:3 What is abundance to man in all his trouble in which he is troubled under the sun?
ECC 1:4 A generation goes, and a generation comes; and the earth is established into the eon.
ECC 1:5 And the sun rises, and the sun goes down, and it draws unto its place.
ECC 1:6 In its rising it goes forth to the south, and it circles to the north; the wind circles going circling, and at its circuits the wind returns.
ECC 1:7 All the rushing streams go into the sea; and the sea is not filled up. To the place where the rushing streams went, there they shall return to go again.
ECC 1:8 All the wearied words a man shall not be able to speak, and the eye shall not be filled up to see, and the ear shall not be filled of hearing.
ECC 1:9 What is the thing taking place but the same thing as shall be taking place. And what is the thing being but the same thing as shall be done; and there is not anything newly made under the sun.
ECC 1:10 Who shall speak and shall say? Behold, this is new! Already it has happened in the eons to the ones having taken place from before us.
ECC 1:11 There is not a remembrance to the first things; and indeed to the last things being there will not be a remembrance of them, with the ones being born at the latter end.
ECC 1:12 I an ecclesiastic became king over Israel in Jerusalem.
ECC 1:13 And I gave my heart to inquire and to survey by wisdom concerning all things happening under the heaven. For God gave a wicked distraction to the sons of men to be distracting to him.
ECC 1:14 I beheld all the actions being done under the sun; and behold, all was folly and a resolve of spirit.
ECC 1:15 The thing being perverted is not able to be embellished. And deficiency is not able to be counted.
ECC 1:16 I spoke in my heart to say, Behold, I was magnified, and was added wisdom over all who came before me in Jerusalem. And I give my heart to know wisdom and knowledge.
ECC 1:17 And my heart beheld much wisdom and knowledge, parables, and higher knowledge. For I knew even indeed this is resolve of spirit.
ECC 1:18 For in abundance of wisdom is abundance of knowledge; and the one adding knowledge shall add pain.
ECC 2:1 I said in my heart, Come now indeed, I will test you with gladness, and therefore know good! And behold, also even this is folly.
ECC 2:2 To laughter, I said, Deviation. and to gladness, Why do you do this?
ECC 2:3 And I surveyed if my heart would draw my flesh with wine, and my heart guided me in wisdom; and to hold upon gladness, until of which I should see what kind was the good to the sons of men, which they shall do under the sun with their numbered days of life.
ECC 2:4 I magnified my action; I built to myself houses; I planted my vineyards.
ECC 2:5 I made to myself gardens and parks, and I planted in them a tree for every fruit.
ECC 2:6 I made to myself pools of waters to water by them the grove bursting forth trees.
ECC 2:7 I acquired menservants and maidservants. and native-born servants were born to me; and indeed a possession of a great herd and flock became to me above all the ones being before me in Jerusalem.
ECC 2:8 I brought together to myself also indeed silver, and indeed gold, and prized possessions of kings and of the places. I prepared to myself male singers and female singers, and amusements of the sons of man; and male wine servers and female wine servers.
ECC 2:9 And I became magnified, and proceeded in wisdom past all the ones being before me in Jerusalem; and indeed my wisdom was established to me.
ECC 2:10 And all whatever my eyes asked for was not at a distance from them. I did not detain my heart from any gladness; for my heart was gladdened in all my effort. And this was my portion of all my effort.
ECC 2:11 And I looked upon all my actions which I did by my hands, and on the effort in which I made an effort to do. And behold, all things were folly and a resolve of spirit, and there is not an advantage under the sun.
ECC 2:12 And I looked around to behold wisdom, and deviation, and folly. For what can man, who will come after counsel, do with the things as much as they did with it?
ECC 2:13 And I beheld that there is an advantage to wisdom over folly, as the advantage of the light over the darkness.
ECC 2:14 The wise one - his eyes are in his head; but the foolish one goes in darkness. And I knew, even indeed I, that one event shall meet with all them.
ECC 2:15 And I said in my heart, As the event of the foolish one is, even indeed to me it shall meet up with me; and why have I discerned wisdom? And this extra I said in my heart, for a foolish one from out of abundance speaks, for even indeed this is folly.
ECC 2:16 For there is not a remembrance of the wise one with the foolish one in the eon; in so far as already the coming days all things are forgotten - even how the wise one shall die with the foolish one.
ECC 2:17 And I was detested with life; for evil was upon me - the action of doing a thing under the sun. For all is folly and a resolve of spirit.
ECC 2:18 And I detested all my effort which I made an effort under the sun. For I must leave it to the man coming after me.
ECC 2:19 And who knows if he will be a wise one or a foolish one? And if he exercises authority in all my effort in which I made an effort in, and in which I gained discernment under the sun - even indeed this is folly.
ECC 2:20 And I turned to dismiss my heart upon all effort in which I made an effort under the sun.
ECC 2:21 For there is a man that made his effort in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in courage; and a man which did not make an effort - in him he will give to him his portion. And indeed this is folly and great wickedness.
ECC 2:22 What happens to the man in all his effort, and in resolve of his heart in which he makes an effort under the sun?
ECC 2:23 For in all his days are pains and rage of his distraction; and indeed in night his heart does not go to bed. And indeed this is folly.
ECC 2:24 There is not a good thing to man unless to eat and to drink, and to show his soul good in his effort. And indeed this I knew, that it is from the hand of God.
ECC 2:25 For who shall eat, and who shall drink besides him?
ECC 2:26 For God gave to the good man before his face, wisdom, and knowledge, and gladness. And to the one sinning he gave distraction, to be added and to bring together so as to give what he has to the good man before the face of God. For even indeed this is folly and resolve of spirit.
ECC 3:1 To all there is the time and season to every thing under the heaven.
ECC 3:2 A season to give birth, and a season to die; a season to plant, and a season to pluck out the thing being planted;
ECC 3:3 a season to kill, and a season to heal; a season to demolish, and a season to build;
ECC 3:4 a season to weep, and a season to laugh; a season to lament, and a season to dance;
ECC 3:5 a season to throw stones, and a season to gather stones; a season to embrace, and a season to be far from embrace;
ECC 3:6 a season to seek, and a season to lose; a season to keep, and a season to cast out;
ECC 3:7 a season to tear, and a season to sew; a season to be quiet, and a season to speak;
ECC 3:8 a season to be fond of, and a season to detest; a season of war, and a season of peace.
ECC 3:9 What advantage of the one doing things in which he makes an effort?
ECC 3:10 I saw with the distraction which God gave to the sons of men to be distracting to him -
ECC 3:11 all which he made is good in his season; and indeed with the eon he gave in their heart, so that man should not find the action which God did from beginning till end.
ECC 3:12 I knew that there is not good in them, except to be glad and to do good in his life.
ECC 3:13 And indeed, every man who shall eat and shall drink, and should behold good in all his effort - it is a gift of God.
ECC 3:14 I knew that, all things as many as God did, they shall be into the eon. Unto them it is not to add, and from them it is not to remove. And God did, that they should fear from in front of him.
ECC 3:15 The thing becoming, already is; and as much as there is to be, already has become; and God shall seek the thing pursuing.
ECC 3:16 And still I beheld under the sun the place of judgment, that there the impious one was; and the place of the just ones, that there the pious one was.
ECC 3:17 I said in my heart, With the just one and with the impious one, God will judge. For there is a season to every thing, and for every action there.
ECC 3:18 I said in my heart, concerning the speech of the sons of man, that God will examine them, and to show that they are beasts.
ECC 3:19 And indeed to them the event of the sons of man, and the event of the beast is one event to them. As the death of this one, so also the death of this other one; and one breath to all. And what abounded the man more than the cattle? Nothing - for all the things are folly.
ECC 3:20 All things go to one place; all things came from the dust, and all things return to the dust.
ECC 3:21 And who has known the spirit of the sons of man, if it ascends itself upward? and the spirit of the beast, if it goes down itself below into the earth?
ECC 3:22 And I saw that there is not a good thing, except where a man shall be glad in his actions; for it is his portion. For who will lead him to see in what ever should take place after him?
ECC 4:1 And I turned and beheld all the extortions happening under the sun. And behold, the tear of the ones being extorted, and there is not one comforting them. And by the hand of ones extorting them was strength, and there is not one comforting them.
ECC 4:2 And I praised all of the ones having died of the ones already dying more than the living, as many as live until the present.
ECC 4:3 And better is he than these two, which not yet was born, which knew not all the evil action being done under the sun.
ECC 4:4 And I beheld all the effort, and all courage of action; for the same zeal of man is from his companion. And indeed this is folly and resolve of spirit.
ECC 4:5 The foolish one embraces his hands, and eats his own flesh.
ECC 4:6 Better a handful full of rest, than two handfuls full of trouble and resolve of spirit.
ECC 4:7 And I turned, and I saw folly under the sun.
ECC 4:8 There is one alone, and there is not a second; (and indeed, there is not son nor indeed brother to him; and there is not a limit to all his effort;) and indeed his eye is not satisfied of riches; and saying, Why do I make an effort, and deprive my soul of goodness? And indeed, this is folly and an evil distraction.
ECC 4:9 Better the two than the one, in which there is to them a good wage in their effort;
ECC 4:10 for if they should fall, the one shall raise his partner. But woe to him, to the one, whenever he should fall, and there should not be a second one to raise him.
ECC 4:11 And if two should go to bed, and heat themselves - then the one, how shall he heat himself?
ECC 4:12 And if one prevails against the one, the two shall stand against him. And the three-stranded cord shall not quickly be ripped apart.
ECC 4:13 Better a needy and wise child, than an older and foolish king who does not know to take heed any longer.
ECC 4:14 For from out of the house of the prisoners he shall come forth to reign, while even indeed one in his kingdom was needy.
ECC 4:15 I beheld all of the living walking under the sun, with the young of the second generation who shall stand in place of him.
ECC 4:16 There is not a limit to all the people, even to all as many as were before them; and indeed, the last shall not be glad in him. For even indeed this is folly and resolve of spirit.
ECC 5:1 Guard your foot whenever you should go into the house of God, and are near to hear! Let your sacrifice be above the gift of the foolish ones, for they are not knowing of the doing bad.
ECC 5:2 Do not hasten with your mouth, and let not your heart hasten to bring forth a word before the presence of God! For God is in the heaven upward, and you are upon the earth - upon this let your words be few!
ECC 5:3 For a dream comes through in a multitude of testing; and the voice of a foolish one in a multitude of words.
ECC 5:4 As when you vow a vow to God, you should not pass time to render it, for his will is not in foolish vows. You then, as much as you should have vowed, render!
ECC 5:5 Better for you to not make a vow, than for you to make a vow and not repay.
ECC 5:6 You should not give your mouth to lead your flesh into sin; and you should not say before the presence of God that, It is in ignorance; lest God should be provoked to anger at your voice, and should utterly destroy the things made by your hands.
ECC 5:7 For in a multitude of dreams, and follies, and many words - that with God you should fear.
ECC 5:8 If you should see extortion of the needy and seizure by lawsuit and judicial right in a place, you should not wonder over the thing; for a high one shall guard above a high one, and high ones over them.
ECC 5:9 And the abundance of the earth is for all; even a king needs the working of a field.
ECC 5:10 The one loving silver shall not be filled of silver; nor one who loved their offspring in their abundance. And indeed this is folly.
ECC 5:11 In a multitude of goodness the ones eating of it are multiplied. And what courageous thing is it to the one having it, but the sum of the seeing it with his eyes?
ECC 5:12 Sleep is sweet for the servant, if he shall eat little or if much. And to the one being filled to be rich there is not an allowing him to sleep.
ECC 5:13 There is a sickness which I beheld under the sun - riches being kept by him, for his hurt.
ECC 5:14 And those riches shall be destroyed in an evil distraction; and he engenders a son, and is there not anything in his hand.
ECC 5:15 As he came forth from the womb of his mother naked, he shall return to go as he comes, and nothing shall he take in his effort, that it should go with him in his hand.
ECC 5:16 And indeed this is an evil sickness; for as he came, so also he shall go forth. And what is his advantage in which he makes an effort into the wind?
ECC 5:17 And indeed all his days are in darkness, and in mourning, and much rage, and sickness, and bitter anger.
ECC 5:18 Behold, I saw good - that which is good to eat and to drink; and to see goodness in all his effort in what ever he should make an effort in under the sun, in the number of days of his life which God gave to him; for it is his portion.
ECC 5:19 And indeed, every man to whom God gave to him riches and possessions, and gave authority to him to eat from it, and to take his portion, and to be glad in his effort - this is a gift of God.
ECC 5:20 For not much will he remember the days of his life, for God distracts him in the gladness of his heart.
ECC 6:1 There is a wickedness which I beheld under the sun, and it is abundant with men.
ECC 6:2 A man to whom God shall give to him wealth, and possessions, and glory, and there is not a lacking to his soul from all things which he shall desire; but God shall not give authority to him to eat from it; for a man, a stranger, shall eat it. And this is folly and an evil sickness.
ECC 6:3 If a man should engender a hundred, and shall live many years, and however abundant will be the days of his years, that his soul shall not be filled up from goodness, and indeed a burial did not take place to him. I said, Better for him the miscarriage.
ECC 6:4 For in folly he came, and in darkness he goes, and in darkness his name shall be covered.
ECC 6:5 And indeed he knew not the sun, and this one knows not rest over this other one.
ECC 6:6 And if he lived a thousand years of returns, and he knew not goodness, is it not unto one place all shall go?
ECC 6:7 Every effort of man is for his mouth, and indeed the soul shall not be filled.
ECC 6:8 For what advantage to the wise one over the foolish one, for the needy knows to go in front of life?
ECC 6:9 Better vision of eyes, than going in life; for indeed this is folly and resolve of spirit.
ECC 6:10 If anything became, already its name has been called; and it is known what man is, and he is not able to judge against the one stronger than he.
ECC 6:11 For there are many matters multiplying folly.
ECC 6:12 What extra is to man? For who knows what is good to man in life, during the number of the life of the days of his folly? And he spent them as a shadow; for who shall report to man what will be after him under the sun?
ECC 7:1 A good name is above good oil, and the day of death above the day of birth.
ECC 7:2 It is good to go into a house of mourning, than than to go into a house of a banquet; in so far as this is the end of every man; and the living man will give good to his heart.
ECC 7:3 Better is rage than laughter, for by hurt of countenance the heart will be made better.
ECC 7:4 The heart of the wise ones is in the house of mourning; and the heart of the foolish ones is in the house of gladness.
ECC 7:5 It is good to hear the reproach of a wise one, than for a man to hear songs of foolish ones.
ECC 7:6 As the sound of the thorn-bushes burning under the kettle, so the laughter of the foolish ones; and indeed this is folly.
ECC 7:7 For extortion drives the wise one mad, and destroys the magnanimity of his heart.
ECC 7:8 Better the last of matters than its beginning; better the lenient than high spirit.
ECC 7:9 You should not hasten in your spirit to be enraged, for rage shall rest in the bosom of foolish ones.
ECC 7:10 You should not say, What happened that the former days were good over these - for you asked not in wisdom concerning this.
ECC 7:11 Wisdom is good with an allotment, and abundance to the ones viewing the sun.
ECC 7:12 For wisdom in its shadow is as the shadow of silver; and the advantage of the knowledge of wisdom will restore to life the one having it.
ECC 7:13 Behold the actions of God! For who shall be able to adorn what ever God should turn from him?
ECC 7:14 In the day of goodness live in good, and look out in the day of evil! Behold, and indeed with this God caused harmony with these concerning speech, that man should not find anything after him!
ECC 7:15 All things I beheld in days of my folly. There is a just one being destroyed in his just actions, and there is an impious one abiding in his evil actions.
ECC 7:16 Do not become super just, nor discern extra, lest at any time you should be overwhelmed!
ECC 7:17 You should not be super impious, and do not become hard, that you should not die in your time!
ECC 7:18 It is good for you to hold to in this; and indeed from this you should not defile your hand. For to the ones fearing God all things shall go forth.
ECC 7:19 Wisdom will give help to the wise one over ten exercising authority being in the city.
ECC 7:20 For there is not a just man on the earth who shall do good and shall not sin.
ECC 7:21 And indeed unto all the words which they shall speak, you should not put them to your heart, so that you should not hear your servant cursing you;
ECC 7:22 for very often he will act wickedly against you, and returning many times he shall inflict your heart - same as also indeed you cursed others.
ECC 7:23 All these things I tested in wisdom. I said, I shall be discerning, but it was far from me.
ECC 7:24 Far above what was, and a deep depth - who shall find it?
ECC 7:25 I and my heart circled about to know, and to survey, and to seek wisdom, and the reckoning of things, and to know an impious one's folly, and rioting, and deviation.
ECC 7:26 And I find her more bitter than death - with the woman in which her heart is snares and dragnets, and a bond in her hands. He that is good before the face of God shall be delivered from her; and the one sinning will be seized with her.
ECC 7:27 Behold, this I found, said the ecclesiastic, ( counting one by one, to find a device,)
ECC 7:28 which my soul anxiously sought, and did not find; even one man from out of a thousand did I find, and a woman among all these I did not find.
ECC 7:29 Except behold, this I found, that God dealt with the upright man! But they sought many devices, so who knows wise things, and who knows the loosening of a saying?
ECC 8:1 A man's wisdom will lighten his countenance; and an impudent man - his countenance will be detested.
ECC 8:2 Watch the mouth of a king, and concerning the word of the oath of God!
ECC 8:3 You should not hurriedly go from his face. You should not stand in an evil matter, for what ever he wants, he does.
ECC 8:4 As a king exercising authority, and who shall say to him, What do you do?
ECC 8:5 The one keeping the commandment shall not know an evil matter. And the heart of a wise one knows the time of judgment.
ECC 8:6 For every thing there is a season and judgment, for knowledge of man is vast unto him.
ECC 8:7 For there is not one knowing what the being is; for as it will be, who shall announce to him?
ECC 8:8 There is not a man exercising authority over spirit to restrain with the spirit; and there is not one exercising authority in the day of death; and there is not a discharge in the day of battle; and impiety shall not preserve the thing for it.
ECC 8:9 And all this I beheld, and gave my heart to every action which I had done under the sun; the things, as much as a man exercises authority to a man to inflict evil on him.
ECC 8:10 And then I beheld the impious ones being brought into the tombs, and from out of the holy place; and they went and were praised in the city, because they did thus. And indeed this is folly.
ECC 8:11 Because there is not a speedily existing objection for the ones doing the evil thing quickly, therefore by this the heart of the sons of man have full assurance in themselves to do evil.
ECC 8:12 The one who sinned did evil from then, and of their duration. (For also even I know that there is good to the ones fearing God, so that they should fear from in front of him.)
ECC 8:13 But it will not be good to the impious one, and he shall not prolong his days which are as a shadow; for he is not fearing from before God.
ECC 8:14 There is a folly which is done upon the earth - that there are the just ones that attain unto them, as the action of the impious ones; and there are the impious ones that attain to them, as the action of the just ones. I said that, Indeed also this is folly.
ECC 8:15 And I praised with the gladness, because there is not a good thing to man under the sun, were it not to eat, and to drink, and to be glad. And it will adhere to him in his effort all the days of his life, as God gave to him under the sun.
ECC 8:16 Whereupon I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to behold the distraction being done upon the earth. For also at day and at night a person is not seeing sleep with his eyes.
ECC 8:17 And I beheld all the actions of God, that man shall not be able to find anything with the action being done under the sun. As long as man should make an effort to seek, even he shall not find. And indeed, as long as the wise one should speak to know, he shall not be able to find. For all this I gave to my heart, and my heart beheld all this.
ECC 9:1 As the just ones, and the wise ones, even their works are in the hand of God. Indeed even love, indeed even hatred, there is not a man knowing all the things before them.
ECC 9:2 Folly is in all things; there is one event to the just one, and one to the impious one; to the good and to the bad; and to the clean and to the unclean; and to the one sacrificing and to the one not sacrificing; as is the good, as is the one sinning; as the one swearing by an oath, as is the one fearing the oath.
ECC 9:3 This evil is in all being done under the sun, that there is one event to all. And indeed, the heart of the sons of man are filled with evil, and madness in their heart during their life; and after them they go to the dead.
ECC 9:4 For someone who participates with all the living there is hope; for the living dog himself is good over the dead lion.
ECC 9:5 For the living shall know that they shall die; but the dead are not knowing anything; and there is not a wage to them any longer; for their remembrance was forgotten.
ECC 9:6 And indeed their love, and indeed their hatred, and indeed their zeal, already perished; and there is not a portion to them any longer into the eon, in all things being done under the sun.
ECC 9:7 Come, eat with gladness of your bread, and drink your wine with a good heart! For already God thought well of your actions.
ECC 9:8 In every time let your garments be white, and let not oil be lacking upon your head!
ECC 9:9 And behold life with the wife which you loved all the days of the life of your folly, the ones being given to you under the sun, all the days of the life of your folly! For it is your portion in your life, and in your effort wherein you made an effort under the sun.
ECC 9:10 All as much as your hand should find to do, you do as is in your power; for there is not an action, nor a device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in Hades, of where you should go there.
ECC 9:11 I turned, and I beheld under the sun, that not to the light of foot is the race; and not to the mighty ones is the battle; and indeed not to the wise ones is the bread; and indeed not to the discerning ones is the riches; and indeed not to the ones knowing favor; for a season and a meeting shall meet with them all.
ECC 9:12 And indeed man does not know his season. As fishes being hunted with a hurtful casting-net, and as birds being hunted with a snare - as them the sons of man shall be ensnared in an evil season, whenever it should fall upon them suddenly.
ECC 9:13 And indeed this I beheld - wisdom under the sun, and it is great to me.
ECC 9:14 If there were a small city, and the men in it few; and there should come against it a great king, and shall encircle it, and shall build against it great siege mounds;
ECC 9:15 and that there should be found in it a needy wise man; and he himself shall deliver the city in his wisdom - but man remembered not with that needy man.
ECC 9:16 And I said, Wisdom is good over power. But the wisdom of the needy man is being treated with contempt, and his words are not being listened to.
ECC 9:17 Words of wise ones being at rest are heard above a cry of ones being in authority in follies.
ECC 9:18 Wisdom is good over weapons of war; but one sinning shall destroy much goodness.
ECC 10:1 A fly put to death will rot a concoction of luscious oil; A little wisdom is valuable over great glory of folly.
ECC 10:2 The heart of a wise one is at his right hand; and the heart of a foolish one is at his left.
ECC 10:3 And indeed whenever a foolish one goes in the way of his heart, he will fail, and all which he considers is folly.
ECC 10:4 If spirit of the one exercising authority should ascend against you, you should not leave your place; for a cure will put to rest great sins.
ECC 10:5 There is a wickedness which I beheld under the sun, as an unintentional act came forth from the person of one exercising authority.
ECC 10:6 The foolish one was put in great heights, and the rich shall settle in low.
ECC 10:7 I beheld servants upon horses, and rulers going as servants upon the ground.
ECC 10:8 The one digging a cesspool shall fall into it; and the one demolishing a fence boundary, a serpent shall bite him.
ECC 10:9 One lifting away stones shall work hard among them; one splitting wood shall be exposed to danger in them.
ECC 10:10 If an iron implement should fall off, and he disturbed countenance, then power and abundance shall strengthen to the man of which is wisdom.
ECC 10:11 Surely the serpent should bite with not an enchanter whispering, and there is not an advantage to the one charming.
ECC 10:12 The words of a wise mouth carry favor, but the lips of a foolish one shall sink him;
ECC 10:13 beginning with words of his mouth in folly, and the end of his mouth wicked madness.
ECC 10:14 And the foolish one multiplies words. Man knows not what the thing becoming is, and what the thing being is, while after him who shall announce to him?
ECC 10:15 The effort of the foolish ones shall trouble them, as one who knows not how to go into a city.
ECC 10:16 Woe to you, O city, of which your king is younger, and your rulers eat in the morning.
ECC 10:17 Blessed is your land of which your king is a son of free nobles, and your rulers at a proper time shall eat in force, and shall not be ashamed.
ECC 10:18 By slothful neglect a building will be lowered; and in idleness of hands the house will drip.
ECC 10:19 For laughter they make bread, and wine, and olive oil, for the living to be glad; and of money all will heed.
ECC 10:20 And indeed in your conscience you should not curse a king; and in the closets of your bedrooms you should not curse a rich man; for a winged creature of the heaven shall carry your voice, and the one having the wings shall report your word.
ECC 11:1 Send your bread upon the face of the water! for in a multitude of days you will find it.
ECC 11:2 Give a portion to seven, even indeed to eight! for you know not what evil there will be upon the earth.
ECC 11:3 If the clouds should be filled of rain, then they pour out upon the earth. And if a tree should fall towards the south, and if towards the north, then in a place where the tree shall fall - there it shall be.
ECC 11:4 Giving heed to the wind he sows not; and looking into the clouds he harvests not,
ECC 11:5 being among the ones in whom there is not a knowing what the way of the wind is, even as the bones in the womb of one being with child, so you shall not know the actions of God, as much as he shall do in all things.
ECC 11:6 At morning sow your seed, and at evening do not relieve your hand! For you know not what will line up - this here, or, this there. And if the two are together - good things.
ECC 11:7 Moreover the light is sweet, and it is good to the eyes to see with the sun,
ECC 11:8 for even if a man shall live many years, in all them he shall be glad, and the days of darkness shall be remembered, for they will be many. All coming is folly.
ECC 11:9 Be glad, O young man, in your youth! And let your heart do you good in the days of your youth! And walk in the ways of your heart unblemished, and in the vision of your eyes! And know that in all these God shall lead you in equity!
ECC 11:10 And leave rage from your heart, and pass off wickedness from your flesh! for youth and thoughtlessness are folly.
ECC 12:1 And remember the one creating you in the days of your youth, until whenever the days of evil should not come, and years should arrive, in which you shall say, There is not in me a want for them;
ECC 12:2 until of which the sun and the light are not darkened, nor the moon and the stars; nor the clouds return after the rain;
ECC 12:3 in a day in which ever the keepers of the house should be shaken, and men of power should be turned aside, and the grinding women are idle because they are made few, and the women looking out of the openings shall darken;
ECC 12:4 and they shall lock the doors in the market in weakness of the sound of the woman grinding, and one shall rise up to the sound of the sparrow, and all the daughters of song shall be humbled;
ECC 12:5 and indeed from the height they shall see, even stupefactions in the way; and the almond shall bloom, and the locust shall thicken, and the caper shall be dispersed; because man went to his eternal house; and the ones beating their chests in mourning circled in the market;
ECC 12:6 until whenever the line of silver should be prostrated, and the flower ornament of gold should be broken, and the water-pitcher should be broken at the spring, and the wheel should have rolled unto the pit,
ECC 12:7 and the dust shall return upon the earth as it was, and the spirit should return to the God who gave it.
ECC 12:8 Folly of follies, said the ecclesiastic, all things are folly.
ECC 12:9 And it was extra that the ecclesiastic became wise, and taught knowledge with man, and that he shall trace composed parables.
ECC 12:10 The ecclesiastic sought much to find a wanting of words, and writing of uprightness of words of truth.
ECC 12:11 The words of the wise ones are as the oxgoads, and as nails firmly planted; ones which by agreement were given from one shepherd.
ECC 12:12 And O my son guard extra by them! To make many scrolls there is not a limit; and much meditation is weariness of flesh.
ECC 12:13 The end of the whole matter, hear! Fear God, and keep his commandments! for this is all to man.
ECC 12:14 For all action God shall lead into judgment, with all being looked over, if good and if evil.
SOL 1:1 A song of songs which is to Solomon.
SOL 1:2 Let him kiss me by kisses of his mouth! For your breasts are good over wine.
SOL 1:3 And the scent of your perfumes - your name is over all the aromatics of perfume being emptied out; on account of this the young women loved you.
SOL 1:4 They drew me; we will run after you for the scent of your perfumes. The king carried me into his inner chamber. We should exult and be glad in you. We shall love your breasts over wine. Uprightness loved you.
SOL 1:5 I am black, and fair, O daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Kedar, as the hide coverings of Solomon.
SOL 1:6 You should not look, for I am being blackened, for the sun looked over me. Sons of my mother quarreled with me; they made me keeper in the vineyards; but I kept not my own vineyard.
SOL 1:7 Report to me, O whom my soul loved, where you tend, where you bed at midday; lest at any time I should become as one being covered by a veil by the herds of your companions!
SOL 1:8 If you should not know yourself, O the fair one among women, you come forth at the heels of the flocks, and tend your kids by the tents of the shepherds!
SOL 1:9 To my horse among the chariots of Pharaoh, I likened you, my dear one.
SOL 1:10 How your cheeks are beautiful as a turtle-dove; your neck as pendants.
SOL 1:11 Representations of gold we will make for you with marks of silver.
SOL 1:12 Until of which time the king was at his laying down, my spikenard gave its scent.
SOL 1:13 My kinsman is a bundle of balsam to me; he shall be lodged between my breasts.
SOL 1:14 A cluster of camphor is my kinsman man to me in vineyards of En-gedi.
SOL 1:15 Behold, you are fair my dear maiden; behold, you are fair; your eyes are as doves.
SOL 1:16 Behold, you are fair, my kinsman; and indeed beautiful to our shady bed.
SOL 1:17 Beams of our houses are cedars; our fretworks cypresses.
SOL 2:1 I am a flower of the plain; a lily of the valleys.
SOL 2:2 As a lily in the midst of thorn-bushes, thus is my dear maiden in the midst of the daughters.
SOL 2:3 As an apple among the trees of the groves, so is my kinsman in the midst of the sons. To be in his shadow I desired, and I sat down, and his fruit was sweet in my throat.
SOL 2:4 Bring me into the house of wine! Order for me agape!
SOL 2:5 Support me with perfumes! Pile me with apples, for I am being pierced of agape.
SOL 2:6 His left hand is under my head, and his right hand will embrace me.
SOL 2:7 I bound you by an oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the powers, and by the strengths of the field, if you should arise and awaken agape until of which time it should want.
SOL 2:8 The voice of my kinsman. Behold, thus he comes springing up over the mountains, leaping over the hills.
SOL 2:9 My kinsman is likened to the doe or a fawn of the hinds. Behold, he stands behind our wall, leaning over through the windows, looking out through the lattice.
SOL 2:10 My kinsman responds, and says to me, Rise up, come my dear maiden, my fair one, my dove!
SOL 2:11 For behold, the winter went by, the rain went forth; it went to itself.
SOL 2:12 The flowers appeared in the land; the season of the pruning arrived; the voice of the turtle-dove was heard in our land;
SOL 2:13 the fig-tree brought forth its immature figs; the grapevines blossom, they gave a scent. Rise up, come my dear maiden, my fair one, my dove - yes come!
SOL 2:14 You are my dove in the protection of the rock, being next to the area around the wall. Show to me your appearance, and cause me to hear your voice! For your voice is agreeable, and your appearance is beautiful.
SOL 2:15 Lay hold for us the small foxes obliterating the vineyards; for our grapevines blossom.
SOL 2:16 My kinsman is to me, and I to him. He is the one tending among the lilies;
SOL 2:17 until of which the day should refresh, and the shadows should move - return! You be like, O my kinsman, to the buck or fawn of the hinds upon mountain hollows!
SOL 3:1 Upon my bed in the nights I sought whom my soul loved. I sought him, and did not find him. I called unto him, and he hearkened not to me.
SOL 3:2 I shall rise up indeed, and shall encircle in the city, in the markets, and in the squares; and I will seek whom my soul loved. I sought him, and did not find him.
SOL 3:3 They found me - the ones keeping guard, encircling in the city, saw not whom my soul loved.
SOL 3:4 It was a little time when I passed by them, until of which I found whom my soul loved. I held him, and not did I let him go, until of which I brought him into the house of my mother, and into the inner chamber of the one conceiving me.
SOL 3:5 I bound you by an oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the powers, and by the strengths of the field, if you should arise and awaken agape until whenever it should want.
SOL 3:6 Who is she ascending from the wilderness as sticks of smoke, being of burning incense of myrrh and frankincense, from all the powders of the perfumer?
SOL 3:7 Behold, the bed of Solomon - sixty mighty men round about it, from the mighty ones of Israel.
SOL 3:8 All holding a broadsword, being taught war - every man with his broadsword upon his thigh, because of consternation in the nights.
SOL 3:9 King Solomon made a carriage for himself from woods of Lebanon.
SOL 3:10 His columns he made of silver, and his couch of gold, his step purple; within it an agape stone pavement from the daughters of Jerusalem.
SOL 3:11 Come forth and behold, daughters of Zion, unto king Solomon, unto the crown which his mother crowned him in the day of his betrothing, and in the day of the gladness of his heart!
SOL 4:1 Behold, you are fair my dear maiden; behold, you are fair. Your eyes - doves outside your veil. Your head of hair is as herds of goats who were revealed from Gilead.
SOL 4:2 Your teeth are as herds of the ones being sheared which ascended from the bath, all bearing twins, and there is not a childless one among them.
SOL 4:3 Your lips are as a scarlet string, and your speech beautiful; your cheeks are as a rind of the pomegranate outside your veil.
SOL 4:4 Your neck is as the tower of David having been built for the armory. A thousand shields hang upon it, all the arrows of the mighty.
SOL 4:5 Your two breasts are as two twin fawns of the doe feeding among the lilies.
SOL 4:6 Until of which the day should refresh, and the shadows move away, then I will go myself to the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of frankincense.
SOL 4:7 Entirely fare is my dear maiden, and there is not a blemish in you.
SOL 4:8 Come from Lebanon, O bride, come from Lebanon. You shall come and go through from the top of Trust, from the head of Shenir and Hermon, from the lairs of lions, from the mountains of leopards.
SOL 4:9 You took my heart, my sister, O bride; you took my heart with one of your eyes, with one garland of your neck.
SOL 4:10 How your breasts were beautified my sister, O bride. How your breasts were beautified above wine, and the scent of your garments above all aromatics.
SOL 4:11 Your lips drop honeycomb, O bride. Honey and milk are under your tongue; and the scent of your garments is as the scent of frankincense.
SOL 4:12 A garden being locked is my sister, O bride - a spring having a seal upon it.
SOL 4:13 Your dowries are a garden of pomegranates, with the fruit of fruit trees - camphor with spikenards.
SOL 4:14 Spikenard and saffron; calamus and cinnamon, with all the woods of Lebanon; myrrh, aloes, with all of the foremost perfumes.
SOL 4:15 A spring of gardens, a well of water living, and gurgling from Lebanon.
SOL 4:16 Awake, O north wind! And come, O south! And refresh my garden, and let flow my aromatics!
SOL 5:1 Let my kinsman go down into his garden, and let him eat the fruit of his fruit trees! I entered into my garden, my sister, O bride. I gathered the vintage of my myrrh with my aromatics; I ate my bread with my honey; I drank wine with my milk. Eat, O dear men! And drink and be intoxicated, O kinsmen!
SOL 5:2 I sleep, but my heart is sleepless. The voice of my kinsman knocks upon the door, saying, Open to me my sister, my dear one, my dove, my perfect one! For my head is filled of dew, and my curls of the mist of the night.
SOL 5:3 I took off my inner garment; how shall I put it on again? I washed my feet; how shall I taint them?
SOL 5:4 My kinsman sent his hand through the opening, and my belly was alarmed over him.
SOL 5:5 I rose up to open to my kinsman. My hands dripped myrrh, my fingers with full bodied myrrh upon the handles of the bolt.
SOL 5:6 I opened to my kinsman; my kinsman was gone. My soul came forth for his word. I sought him, and did not find him; I called him, and he did not hear me.
SOL 5:7 They found me - the guards encircling in the city. They struck me, they wounded me, the keepers of the walls took my lightweight covering from me.
SOL 5:8 I bind you by an oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the powers, and by the strengths of the field, if you should find my kinsman, what should you report to him, for I am being pierced of agape.
SOL 5:9 What is your kinsman from another kinsman, O fair one among women? What is your kinsman from another kinsman, that thus you bound us by an oath?
SOL 5:10 My kinsman is white and ruddy, being selected from myriads.
SOL 5:11 His head is as gold of Kefaz; his curls flowing fir trees, black as a crow.
SOL 5:12 His eyes are as doves by the fullnesses of waters, being bathed in milk, sitting down upon the fullnesses of waters.
SOL 5:13 His jaws are as bowls of the aromatic, germinating scents. His lips are as lilies dripping full- bodied myrrh.
SOL 5:14 His hands are as turned gold, being filled with Tharsis stone. His belly is as a writing-tablet of ivory upon a stone of sapphire.
SOL 5:15 His shanks are as columns of marble, founded upon bases of gold. His appearance is as Lebanon, choice as cedars.
SOL 5:16 His throat is sweetness, and he is entirely desirable. This is my kinsman, and this is my dear one, O daughters of Jerusalem.
SOL 6:1 Where did your kinsman go forth, O fair one among women? Where did your kinsman look away? For we will seek him with you.
SOL 6:2 My kinsman went down to his garden, to bowls of the aromatics, to tend in gardens, and to collect lilies.
SOL 6:3 I am to my kinsman, and my kinsman to me - the one tending among the lilies.
SOL 6:4 You are fair, O dear maiden, as good-pleasure; beautiful as Jerusalem, a consternation as ones arranged for battle.
SOL 6:5 Turn away your eyes from before me! for they incited me. The hair of your head is as the herds of the goats which ascended from Gilead.
SOL 6:6 Your teeth as herds of the ones being sheared which ascend from the bath, all bearing twins, and there is not one being childless among them. Your lips are as a scarlet string, and your speech is beautiful.
SOL 6:7 Your cheeks are as the rind of the pomegranate being seen outside your veil.
SOL 6:8 There are sixty queens, and eighty concubines, and young women which there is not a number.
SOL 6:9 My dove is one, my perfect one. She is the only one to her mother; the choice one is to the one giving birth to her. The daughters beheld her, and queens will declare her blessed, and indeed the concubines also shall praise her.
SOL 6:10 Who is she looking out as the dawn, fair as the moon, choice as the sun, the consternation as troops being set in order.
SOL 6:11 Into the garden of walnuts I went down to behold among the produce of the valley of the rushing stream; to see if the grapevine bloomed, or if the pomegranates blossomed.
SOL 6:12 My soul knew not. It made me as the chariots of Aminadab.
SOL 6:13 Return! Return! O Shulamite! Return! Return, and we will look to you!
SOL 7:1 What shall you see in the Shulamite? She comes as a company of the camps. How you do beautify your footsteps in sandals, O daughter of Nabad. The proportions of your thighs are likened to pendants - works of the hands of a craftsman.
SOL 7:2 Your navel is as a turned basin, not lacking mixed wine. Your belly is as a heap of grain shut up in lilies.
SOL 7:3 Your two breasts are as two fawns, twins of the doe.
SOL 7:4 Your neck is as a tower of ivory; your eyes are as lakes in Heshbon, by the gates of the daughter of many. Your nose is as the tower of Lebanon, watching in front of Damascus.
SOL 7:5 Your head upon you is as Carmel, and the braid of your head is as purple; the king being bound by its passing by.
SOL 7:6 How beautiful and how delicious, O agape, in your luxuries.
SOL 7:7 This your greatness is likened to the palm, and your breasts to the clusters of grapes.
SOL 7:8 I said, I will ascend unto the palm, I will seize its heights; and your breasts shall indeed be as clusters of grapes of the grapevine, and the scent of your nose as apples.
SOL 7:9 And your throat is as good wine, going to my kinsman in straightness, suiting in my lips and teeth.
SOL 7:10 I turn to my kinsman, and his turning is towards me.
SOL 7:11 Come, O my kinsman! We should go forth into the field; we should lodge in towns;
SOL 7:12 we should rise early to the vineyards; we should see if the grapevine bloomed; if the blossoms bloomed; if the pomegranates bloomed. There I will give my breasts to you.
SOL 7:13 The mandrakes gave a scent, and at our doors are all the fruit trees - new to old. O my kinsman, I kept them for you.
SOL 8:1 Who should grant you, O my kinsman, nursing the breasts of my mother; finding you outside I should kiss you, and indeed, they will not treat me with contempt.
SOL 8:2 I shall take you; I shall bring you into the house of my mother, and into the inner chamber of the one conceiving me. I will give you to drink from scented wine of the juice of my pomegranates.
SOL 8:3 His left hand is under my head, and his right hand shall embrace me.
SOL 8:4 I bound you by an oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the powers, by the strengths of the field, why should you arise and why should you awaken agape until whenever it should want?
SOL 8:5 Who is this ascending from the wilderness, staying upon her kinsman? Under the apple tree I awakened you. There your mother travailed with you. There she travailed with you, giving birth to you.
SOL 8:6 Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm! For agape is strong as death; hard as Hades is jealousy; her sparkling is the sparkling of the fire of her flames.
SOL 8:7 Much water will not be able to extinguish agape, and rivers shall not engulf it. If a man should give all his livelihood for agape, with contempt men will treat it contemptuously.
SOL 8:8 Our sister is small, and has not breasts. What shall we do for our sister in the day in which ever she should be spoken for in it?
SOL 8:9 If she is a wall, we should build upon her parapets of silver. And if she is a door, we will circumscribe for her cedar plank.
SOL 8:10 I am a wall, and my breasts are as towers. I was in their eyes as one finding peace.
SOL 8:11 A Vineyard existed to Solomon in Baal-hamon. He gave over his vineyard to the ones keeping it. Every man shall bring for its fruit a thousand pieces of silver.
SOL 8:12 My vineyard, mine, is before me. The thousands to Solomon, and two hundred to the ones keeping its fruit.
SOL 8:13 O one sitting down in the gardens, the companions are taking heed to your voice. You caused me to hear!
SOL 8:14 Flee, O my kinsman, and be like the doe or the fawn of the hinds upon mountains of aromatics!
ISA 1:1 The vision which Isaiah son of Amoz beheld, which he beheld against Judea, and against Jerusalem, during the kingdom of Uzziah, and Jotham, and Ahaz, and Hezekiah, who reigned over Judea.
ISA 1:2 Hear, O heaven, and give ear O earth! for the LORD spoke, saying, I have engendered sons, and raised them, but they disregarded me.
ISA 1:3 The ox knows the one acquiring it, and the donkey knows the stable of its master; but Israel does not know me, and my people perceived not.
ISA 1:4 Woe, O sinful nation; people full of sins; an evil seed; lawless sons. You abandoned the LORD, and provoked to anger the holy one of Israel; they were separated into the rear.
ISA 1:5 Why still should you be struck, proceeding in lawlessness? The whole head is in misery, and the whole heart is in distress.
ISA 1:6 From feet unto head there is not a wholeness in it. Neither wound, nor stripe, nor inflamed wound are healed; there is not a dressing to place upon it, nor oil, nor bandages.
ISA 1:7 Your land is desolate; your cities scorched; your place before you - strangers devour it, and it is made desolate, being eradicated by alien peoples.
ISA 1:8 The daughter of Zion shall be abandoned as a tent in a vineyard, and as a vacant storehouse in a cucumber garden, as a city being assaulted.
ISA 1:9 And unless the LORD of hosts left us a seed, we would have become as Sodom, and likened as Gomorrah.
ISA 1:10 Hear the word of the LORD, O rulers of Sodom! Take heed to the law of our God, O people of Gomorrah!
ISA 1:11 What are the multitude of your sacrifices to me? says the LORD. I am full of whole burnt offerings of rams, and fat of lambs; and I do not want blood of bulls and he-goats.
ISA 1:12 And neither should you come to appear to me; for who required these from out of your hands? You shall not proceed to tread my courtyard.
ISA 1:13 If you should bring fine flour, it is in vain; incense is an abomination to me; I endure not your new moons and the sabbaths and the great day.
ISA 1:14 Your fasting, and idleness, and your new moons, and your holidays my soul detests. You became to me as a glut; no longer shall I spare your sins.
ISA 1:15 Whenever you should stretch out your hands, I shall turn my eyes from you. And if you should multiply your supplication, I will not listen to you; for your hands are full of blood.
ISA 1:16 Bathe yourself! Become clean! Remove the wickednesses from your souls before my eyes! Cease from your wickednesses!
ISA 1:17 Learn to do good! Inquire of equity! Rescue the one wronged! Judge for the orphan! and do justice for the widow!
ISA 1:18 And come, we should plead, says the LORD. And if your sins should be as crimson, I shall whiten as snow; and if they should be as scarlet, I shall whiten as wool.
ISA 1:19 And if you should want, and if you should listen to me, you shall eat the good things of the earth.
ISA 1:20 But if you should not want, nor should you listen to me, a sword shall devour you. For the mouth of the LORD spoke these things.
ISA 1:21 O how the trustworthy city Zion became a harlot full of judgment, in which righteousness slept in it, but now murderers.
ISA 1:22 Your silver is debased, your peddlers mingle the wine with water.
ISA 1:23 Your rulers resist persuasion; they are partners of thieves, loving bribes, pursuing recompense, not arbitrating for orphans, and not heeding equity of widows.
ISA 1:24 On account of this, thus says the master, the LORD of hosts, Woe the ones being strong of Israel, for I will not cease my rage among the contrary ones, and I will execute judgment of my enemies.
ISA 1:25 And I will bring my hand against you, and I will purify you to cleanness. But the ones resisting persuasion I will destroy, and I will remove all lawless ones from you.
ISA 1:26 And all the proud I will abase; and I will stand your judges as formerly, and your counselors as at the beginning. And after these things you shall be called, City of Righteousness, the trustworthy mother-city Zion.
ISA 1:27 For with judgment her captivity shall be delivered, even with charity.
ISA 1:28 And the lawless ones and the sinners shall be broken together, and the ones abandoning the LORD shall be finished off entirely.
ISA 1:29 For they shall be ashamed of their idols which they preferred, and shall be ashamed over the gardens which they desired.
ISA 1:30 For they will be as a terebinth tree throwing off its leaves, and as a park not having water.
ISA 1:31 And their strength will be as stubble of hemp, and their works as sparks, and the lawless ones and the sinners shall be incinerated together, and there will not be one extinguishing.
ISA 2:1 The word coming to Isaiah son of Amoz concerning Judea, and concerning Jerusalem.
ISA 2:2 For it will be in the last days the mountain of the LORD will be apparent, and the house of God will be upon the uppermost part of the mountains, and it shall be raised up high above the hills; and all the nations shall come unto it.
ISA 2:3 And many nations shall go, and shall say, Come, for we should ascend unto the mountain of the LORD, and unto the house of the God of Jacob; and he will announce to us his way, and we shall go in it. For from out of Zion shall come forth law, and the word of the LORD from out of Jerusalem.
ISA 2:4 And he shall judge in the midst of the nations; and shall completely refute many people. And they shall cut down their swords into plows, and their pikes into sickles. And a nation shall not take a sword against a nation, and in no way should they learn yet to wage war.
ISA 2:5 And now, O house of Jacob, come and we should go to the light of the LORD.
ISA 2:6 For he forsook his people, the house of Jacob; for their place was filled up as from the beginning of ones prognosticating, as that of the Philistines; and many Philistine children were born to them.
ISA 2:7 For they filled up their place with silver and gold, and there was not a limit to the number of their treasures; and they filled up the land with horses, and there was not a limit to the number of their chariots.
ISA 2:8 And they filled up the land of abominations of the works of their hands, and did obeisance to the ones which they made by their fingers.
ISA 2:9 And people bowed, and each man was abased; and in no way will I spare them.
ISA 2:10 And now, enter to the rock, and hide in the earth from in front of the fear of the LORD, and from the glory of his strength, whenever he should rise up to devastate the earth!
ISA 2:11 For the eyes of the LORD are high, but man low; and the height of men shall be abased, and the LORD alone shall be raised up high in that day.
ISA 2:12 For the day of the LORD of hosts is upon every one insulting and proud, and upon every one high and elevated, and they shall be abased;
ISA 2:13 and upon every cedar of Lebanon, of the ones high and elevated, and upon every acorn tree of Bashan,
ISA 2:14 and upon every high mountain, and upon every high hill,
ISA 2:15 and upon every high tower, and upon every high wall,
ISA 2:16 and upon every boat of the sea, and upon every spectacle of boats of beauty.
ISA 2:17 And every man shall be abased, and the haughtiness of men shall fall. And the LORD alone shall be raised up high in that day.
ISA 2:18 And they shall hide all the things made by hand,
ISA 2:19 carrying them into the caves, and into the fissures of the rocks, and into the burrows of the earth, from in front of the fear of the LORD, and from the glory of his strength, whenever he should rise up to devastate the earth.
ISA 2:20 For in that day a man will cast out his abominations made of silver and gold, which they made to do obeisance to the vain things, and to the bats,
ISA 2:21 to enter into the burrows of the solid rock, and the fissures of the rocks, from in front of the fear of the LORD, and from the glory of his strength, whenever he should rise up to devastate the earth.
ISA 2:22 Cease yourself from the man breathing by his nostril! For by what is he considered?
ISA 3:1 Behold indeed, the master, the LORD of hosts, shall remove from Jerusalem and from Judea the prevailing man, and the prevailing woman, the strength of bread, and the strength of water,
ISA 3:2 the giant, and the one prevailing, and a man warrior, and magistrate, and prophet, and thinker, and old man,
ISA 3:3 and commander of fifty, and wonderful counselor, and wise architect, and discerning listener.
ISA 3:4 And I will set young men as their rulers, and mockers will lord over them.
ISA 3:5 And the people will be downcast, man against man, even a man will be against his neighbor; the boy will strike against the old man, and the one without honor against the important.
ISA 3:6 For a man shall take hold of his brother, or a member of the family of his father, saying, You have a garment, you become our chief, and let my food needs be under you!
ISA 3:7 And answering in that day, he will say, I will not be your chief, for there is not bread in my house, nor a garment; I will not be a chief of this people.
ISA 3:8 For Jerusalem is forsaken, and Judea is cast down, and their tongues speak with lawlessness the things against the LORD, resisting persuasion.
ISA 3:9 For now their glory was abased, and the shame of their face withstood them; and they announced their sin as Sodom, and revealed it. Woe to their soul, for they consulted wicked counsel against themselves,
ISA 3:10 having said, We should bind the just one, for he is inconvenient to us. Therefore the produce of their works they shall eat.
ISA 3:11 Woe to the lawless one - evils according to the works of his hands shall come to pass against him.
ISA 3:12 O my people, your exactors glean you, and the ones exacting lord over you. O my people, the ones declaring you blessed mislead you, and they disturb the roads of your feet.
ISA 3:13 But now the LORD will place in judgment, and will stand his people in judgment.
ISA 3:14 The LORD himself shall come for judgment with the elders of the people, and with his rulers. But you, why did you set on fire my vineyard, and the seizure of the poor is in your houses?
ISA 3:15 Why do you wrong my people, and disgrace the face of the poor, says the LORD, the Lord of the militaries?
ISA 3:16 Thus says the LORD, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and they go with a high neck, and with the beckon of the eyes, and their goings with their feet together, dragging their inner garments, and their feet playing together;
ISA 3:17 therefore the LORD will abase the ruling daughters of Zion, and the LORD will uncover their condition.
ISA 3:18 In that day even the LORD will remove the glory of their clothes, and the fringes, and the crescents,
ISA 3:19 and the necklace, and the ornament of their face,
ISA 3:20 and the array of the ornament of glory, and the armlets, and the bracelets, and the wreaths, and the rings, and the right armbands,
ISA 3:21 and the ear-rings, and the objects edged with purple, and the things ornamented in purple,
ISA 3:22 and the cloths for the house, and the transparencies of Lakonika,
ISA 3:23 and the fine linens, and the ones of blue, and scarlet, and the linen being interwoven with gold and blue, and the lightweight coverings for divans.
ISA 3:24 And there will be a cloud of dust instead of an agreeable scent; and instead of a belt, you shall tie around with a rough cord; and instead of the gold ornament for the head, you shall have baldness on account of your works; and instead of the inner garment of the thing ornamented in purple, you shall gird on sackcloth.
ISA 3:25 And your best son whom you love shall fall by the sword, and your strong ones shall fall by the sword, and shall be abased.
ISA 3:26 And the cases of your ornamentation shall mourn, and you shall be left behind alone, and into the earth you shall be dashed.
ISA 4:1 And seven women shall take hold of one man in that day, saying, We will eat our own bread, and wear our own garments; only let your name be called upon us - remove our scorn!
ISA 4:2 In that day God shall shine forth in counsel with glory upon the earth to exalt and to glorify the one left behind of Israel.
ISA 4:3 And it shall be the one left behind in Zion, and the one left behind in Jerusalem, shall be called holy - all the ones being written for life in Jerusalem.
ISA 4:4 For the LORD shall thoroughly wash the filth of the sons and the daughters of Zion, and shall clear out the blood of Jerusalem from its midst by a spirit of judgment, and a spirit of burning.
ISA 4:5 And he shall come, and it will be that every place of mount Zion, and all the places surrounding it, he shall shadow with a cloud by day, and as smoke and the light of fire burning by night - all the glory shall be sheltered.
ISA 4:6 And it will be for a shade from sweltering heat, and for protection, and for a concealment from the hardness of weather and rain.
ISA 5:1 I will sing indeed to the one being loved of me a song of my beloved concerning his vineyard. A vineyard became to the one being loved on a horn in a plentiful place.
ISA 5:2 And I put a barrier around it, and built a palisade, and planted a grapevine - a choice vine. And I built a tower in the midst of it, and dug a wine press in it, and waited for it to produce the grape, and it produced thorn-bushes.
ISA 5:3 And now, ones dwelling in Jerusalem, and man of Judah, judge then between me and my vineyard!
ISA 5:4 What shall I do still to my vineyard, that I did not do to it? For I waited for it to produce a grape, but it produced thorn-bushes.
ISA 5:5 Now then, I will announce to you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its barrier, and it will be for ravaging; and I will demolish its wall, and it will be for trampling.
ISA 5:6 And I will forsake my vineyard. For in no way should it be pruned, neither shall it be dug. And the thorn-bush shall ascend into it as in an uncultivated land. And I will give charge to the clouds to not rain any rain upon it.
ISA 5:7 For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and the man of Judah is the newly planted one being loved. I waited for it to produce equity, but it produced lawlessness and not righteousness - but a cry.
ISA 5:8 Woe to the ones joining together house to house, and nearing field to field, that they should remove anything of their neighbor - will you not live alone upon the land?
ISA 5:9 For it was heard in the ears of the LORD of hosts about these things. For even if there should become many residences in desolation, they shall be great and good, but there will not be ones dwelling in them.
ISA 5:10 For where ten teams of oxen work the land will produce one full clay vessel; and the one sowing six large measures shall produce three measures.
ISA 5:11 Woe to the ones arising in the morning and pursuing liquor, waiting late for it; for the wine shall burn with them.
ISA 5:12 For with the harp, and psaltery, and tambourines, and pipes, they drink wine; but the works of the LORD they do not look at, and the works of his hands they do not contemplate.
ISA 5:13 Therefore my people became captive because of their not knowing the LORD. And a multitude became dead because of hunger and thirst for water.
ISA 5:14 And Hades widened its breath, and opened wide its mouth to not stop. And the honorable ones shall go down, and the great, and the rich, and the one exalting in her.
ISA 5:15 And a people shall be abased, and a man shall be dishonored, and the elevated eyes shall be abased.
ISA 5:16 And the LORD of hosts shall be raised up high in judgment, and the holy God shall be glorified in righteousness.
ISA 5:17 And the ones tearing in pieces shall be grazed as bulls; and lambs shall eat the things of the barren places being taken away.
ISA 5:18 Woe to the ones drawing sins as with a long rough cord, and lawlessnesses as with a yoke strap of a heifer.
ISA 5:19 The ones saying, Let him quickly approach to do, that we should see it! And let the counsel of the holy one of Israel come, that we should know it!
ISA 5:20 Woe to the ones calling the evil thing good, and the good thing evil; the ones making the darkness light, and the light darkness; the ones making the bitter sweet, and the sweet bitter.
ISA 5:21 Woe to the wise ones in themselves, and having knowledge before themselves.
ISA 5:22 Woe to your strong ones drinking wine, and the mighty ones mixing liquor;
ISA 5:23 the ones justifying the impious one because of bribes, and lifting away the just thing of the just one.
ISA 5:24 On account of this, in which manner stubble shall be burnt by a coal of fire, and shall be burnt up by a flame being sent up, their root will be as dust, and their flower shall ascend as a cloud of dust; for they wanted not the law of the LORD of hosts; but the oracle of the holy one of Israel they provoked.
ISA 5:25 And the LORD of hosts was enraged in anger against his people, and put a hand against them, and struck them. And the mountains were provoked, and their decaying flesh became as dung in the midst of the way. And in all these his rage was not turned, but still his hand is high.
ISA 5:26 Accordingly he shall lift up an agreed upon sign among the nations far off, and shall whistle at them from the uttermost part of the earth. And behold, quickly, nimbly they come.
ISA 5:27 They shall not hunger nor tire, nor shall they slumber, nor shall they go to sleep, nor shall they untie their belts from their loins, nor shall they tear away the straps of their sandals;
ISA 5:28 whose arrows are sharp, and their bows being stretched tight; the feet of their horses are considered as solid rock; the wheels of their chariots as a blast;
ISA 5:29 they advance as lions, and stand beside as lion cubs; and he shall take hold, and shall yell as a wild beast, and shall cast them out, and there will not be one rescuing them.
ISA 5:30 And he shall yell on account of them in that day, as the sound of the sea swelling up. And they shall look into the heaven upward and below; and behold, a hard darkness in their perplexity.
ISA 6:1 And it came to pass the year of which king Uzziah died I beheld the LORD sitting upon a high throne, and being lifted up, and the house was full of his glory.
ISA 6:2 And seraphim stood round about him - six wings to the one, and six wings to the other one. And with the first two they covered up the front, and with the second two they covered up the feet, and with the third two they flew.
ISA 6:3 And they cried out another to another, and said, Holy, holy, holy is the LORD of hosts; all the earth is full of his glory.
ISA 6:4 And the lintel lifted up from the sound of which they cried out, and the house was filled up of smoke.
ISA 6:5 And I said, O, I am miserable, for I am vexed; for being a man and having unclean lips in the midst of a people having unclean lips I live in; and the king, the LORD of hosts, I beheld with my eyes.
ISA 6:6 And one of the seraphim was sent to me. And in the hand he had a coal, which he took from the altar with the tong.
ISA 6:7 And he touched my mouth, and said, Behold, this touched your lips; and your lawless deeds it shall remove, and it shall purge your sins.
ISA 6:8 And I heard the voice of the LORD, saying, Whom shall I send, and who shall go to this people? And I said, Behold, I am, send me!
ISA 6:9 And he said, Go, and say to this people! Hearing, you shall hear, but in no way should you perceive; and seeing you shall see, but in no way should you know.
ISA 6:10 For the heart of this people was thickened, and they heard heavily with their ears, and the eyes closed eyelids; lest at any time they should behold with their eyes, and the ears should hear, and the heart should perceive, and they should turn, and I shall heal them.
ISA 6:11 And I said, Until when, O LORD? And he said, Until whenever cities should be made desolate by not being dwelt in, and houses by reason of not being men, and the land shall be left desolate.
ISA 6:12 And after these things God shall distance the men, and the ones being left behind upon the land shall be multiplied.
ISA 6:13 But still upon it is the tenth part, and again it will be for plunder. As a terebinth tree, and as an acorn, whenever it should fall from out of its casing - the holy seed is its pillar trunk..
ISA 7:1 And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, ascended Rezin king of Aram, and Pekah son of Remaliah, king of Israel, against Jerusalem to wage war with it. And they were not able to assault it.
ISA 7:2 And it was announced in the house of David, saying, Aram joined in harmony to Ephraim. And it startled his soul, and the soul of his people, in which manner a tree in a grove is shaken by a wind.
ISA 7:3 And the LORD said to Isaiah, Go forth to meet with Ahaz, you, and the one being left behind, Jasub your son, to the upper pool by way of the field of the fuller.
ISA 7:4 And you shall say to him, Guard to be still, and do not fear, nor your soul be weak from the two trees of these smoking firebrands,! For whenever the anger of my rage takes place, again I will heal.
ISA 7:5 And as far as the son of Aram, and the son of Remaliah, that they consulted wicked counsel, saying,
ISA 7:6 We shall ascend unto Judea, and conversing together with them, we shall turn them to us, and will give to reign over them the son of Tabeal.
ISA 7:7 Thus says the LORD of hosts, In no way should this counsel abide, nor will it be.
ISA 7:8 But the head of Aram is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin; but yet sixty and five years the kingdom of Ephraim will fail from the people.
ISA 7:9 And the head of Ephraim, is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. And if you should not trust, neither should you perceive.
ISA 7:10 And the LORD proceeded to speak to Ahaz, saying,
ISA 7:11 Ask for yourself a sign by the LORD your God, in the depth, or in the height.
ISA 7:12 And Ahaz said, In no way shall I ask, nor shall I test the LORD.
ISA 7:13 And he said, Hear indeed, O house of David! Is it a small thing to you to furnish a struggle to men, then how do you furnish a struggle to the LORD?
ISA 7:14 On account of this, the LORD himself will give to you a sign - behold, the virgin will conceive in the womb, and shall bear a son, and you shall call his name Immanuel.
ISA 7:15 Butter and honey he shall eat, before he knows to prefer wicked or to choose the good.
ISA 7:16 For before the male child knows good or evil, in resisting persuasion of wickedness, he chooses the good. And the land shall be abandoned which you fear of in front of the two kings.
ISA 7:17 But God shall bring upon you, and upon your people, and upon the house of your father, days which have not yet come, from which day Ephraim removed from Judah the king of the Assyrians.
ISA 7:18 And it will be in that day, the LORD will whistle for the flies which shall dominate part of the river of Egypt, and for the bee which is in the place of the Assyrians.
ISA 7:19 And they shall come, and they shall all rest in the ravines of the place, and in the burrows of the rocks, and into the caves, and into every breach, and in every tree.
ISA 7:20 In that day the LORD shall shave with the razor the head of the king of the Assyrians having been intoxicated from the other side of the river, even the hairs of the feet, and he will remove the beard.
ISA 7:21 And it will be in that day, a man shall maintain a heifer of the oxen, and two sheep.
ISA 7:22 And it will be from the much drinking of milk every one being left behind upon the land shall eat butter and honey.
ISA 7:23 And it will be in that day that every place where ever might be a thousand grapevines worth a thousand shekels, they shall be uncultivated and for the thorn-bush.
ISA 7:24 With arrow and bow they shall enter there; for it is an uncultivated land, and the thorn-bush will be in all the land.
ISA 7:25 And every mountain being plowed shall be plowed; in no way shall fear come upon there; for it will be from the uncultivated land and thorn-bush for a land of pastured sheep and for trampling of the ox.
ISA 8:1 And the LORD said to me, Take to yourself a great new roll of papyrus, and write on it with the pen of a man concerning the swiftly made plunder of spoils, for it is at hand!
ISA 8:2 And appoint witnesses to me of trustworthy men - Uriah the priest, and Zachariah son of Barachiah.
ISA 8:3 And I drew near to the prophetess; and she conceived in the womb, and gave birth to a son. And the LORD said to me, Call his name, Quickly Despoil, Swiftly Plunder.
ISA 8:4 For before the child knows to call his father or mother, one shall take t he power of Damascus, and the spoils of Samaria before the king of the Assyrians.
ISA 8:5 And the LORD proceeded to speak to me again, saying,
ISA 8:6 Because this people want not the water of Shiloah going tranquilly, but want to have Rezin and the son of Remaliah king over them, therefore this -
ISA 8:7 behold, the LORD leads against you the strong and abundant water of the river - the king of the Assyrians, and his glory. And he shall ascend upon all your ravine, and shall walk upon all your wall.
ISA 8:8 And he shall remove from Judea a man who shall be able to lift his head or able to complete anything; and his camp will be so as to fill the width of your place; God be with us.
ISA 8:9 Know, O nations, and be vanquished! Take heed until the latter end of the earth! Being strong be vanquished! For if again you should be strong, again you shall be vanquished.
ISA 8:10 And whom ever you should consult counsel, the LORD shall efface it; and what ever word you should speak, in no way should it adhere to you; for God is with us.
ISA 8:11 Thus says the LORD, With the strong hand they resist persuasion in the going of the way of this people, saying,
ISA 8:12 Lest at any time you should say, It is hard. For all what ever this people should say is hard. But the fear of him in no way should you be fearful, nor should you be disturbed.
ISA 8:13 The LORD of the forces - sanctify him, and he will be your fear!
ISA 8:14 And if you should be yielding upon him, he will be to you for a sanctuary; and not as a stone of stumbling for you to meet up with, nor as a rock downfall; but the houses of Jacob are in a snare, and in a hollow lying in wait in Jerusalem.
ISA 8:15 On account of this many shall be powerless among them, and shall fall, and shall be broken; and they shall approach, and men shall be captured being in safety.
ISA 8:16 Then the ones setting a seal upon themselves to not learn the law will be apparent.
ISA 8:17 And one shall say, I shall wait for God, the one turning his face from the house of Jacob, and I will be yielding upon him.
ISA 8:18 Behold, I and the children which God gave to me, even he will be for signs and miracles in the house of Israel by the LORD of hosts who dwells on mount Zion.
ISA 8:19 And if they should say to you, Seek the ones who deliver oracles, and the ones from the earth speaking out loud, and the empty words which they speak out loud from the belly; shall not a nation inquire to its God? Why do they inquire concerning the living of the ones dead?
ISA 8:20 For he gave the law for a help, that they should speak not as this saying, concerning of which there are not gifts to give for it.
ISA 8:21 And a famine shall come upon us harshly; and it will be, as whenever you should hunger, you shall be fretting, and you shall speak wickedly of the ruler and the fathers; and they shall look up into the heaven upward,
ISA 8:22 and they shall look to the earth below; and behold, darkness, affliction, and straits - even darkness so as to not see unto a time.
ISA 9:1 Drink this first quickly! Quickly act! O place of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, and the rest on the coast, and on the other side of the Jordan, Galilee of the nations!
ISA 9:2 The people going in darkness beheld a great light. The ones dwelling in a place and shadow of death - light shall radiate upon you.
ISA 9:3 The greatest part of the people you led down in gladness, and they shall be glad before you as the ones being glad in a harvest, and in which manner the ones dividing spoils.
ISA 9:4 For the yoke being situated upon them was removed, even the rod upon their neck; for the rod of the extractors he effaced as in the day against Midian.
ISA 9:5 For every apparel and garment assembled by treachery, they shall pay with reparation; and they shall want to even if it became scorched.
ISA 9:6 For a child was born to us; a son was given to us; of whom the sovereignty became upon his shoulder. And his name is called, Messenger of great counsel, wonderful, counselor, mighty God, potentate, ruler of peace, father of the about to be eon. For I will bring peace upon the rulers, and his health.
ISA 9:7 And great is his sovereignty; and of his peace there is not an end upon the throne of David, and his kingdom to set it up, and to take hold in judgment; even with righteousness from the present and into the eon. The zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do these things.
ISA 9:8 The LORD sent death upon Jacob, and it came upon Israel.
ISA 9:9 And all the people of Ephraim shall know, and the ones settling in Samaria, with insolence and a haughty heart, saying,
ISA 9:10 The bricks are fallen, but come, we should dress stones, and we should fell sycamine trees and cedars, and we should build for ourselves a tower.
ISA 9:11 And God shall dash down the ones rising against mount Zion - against him. And he shall efface his enemies -
ISA 9:12 Syria from the dawn of the sun, and the Greeks from the descent of the sun, the ones devouring Israel with their whole mouth. In all these things the rage is not turned, but still the hand is high.
ISA 9:13 And the people turned not until they were struck, and the LORD of the forces they did not seek.
ISA 9:14 And the LORD removed from Israel the head and tail, the great and small, in one day.
ISA 9:15 The old man, and the ones admiring persons - this is the head; and the prophet teaching lawless things - this is the tail.
ISA 9:16 And the ones declaring this people blessed shall be misleading; and they misled so that they should swallow them down.
ISA 9:17 On account of this the LORD shall not be gladdened over their young men; and upon their orphans and their widows he shall not show mercy. For all are lawless ones and wicked ones, and every mouth speaks unjustly. For all these things his rage shall not turn away, but still his hand is high.
ISA 9:18 And lawlessness shall burn as fire, and as dry wild grass it shall be devoured by fire, and shall be burnt in the thickets of the grove, and shall devour together all the things round about the hills.
ISA 9:19 On account of the rage of the anger of the LORD the entire land burns, and the people will be as ones incinerated by fire. A man shall not show mercy on his brother.
ISA 9:20 But one shall turn aside to the right hand, for he shall hunger; and he shall eat of the left, and in no way shall a man be filled up eating the flesh of his arm.
ISA 9:21 For Manasseh shall eat Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasseh; for together they shall assault Judah. For all these things the rage shall not turn, but still his hand is high.
ISA 10:1 Woe to the ones writing wickedness; for the ones writing are writing wickedness;
ISA 10:2 turning aside equity of the poor, snatching away a judgment of the needy of my people, so that a widow would be to them for ravaging, and an orphan for plunder.
ISA 10:3 And what will they do in the day of the visitation? For the affliction shall come to you from a distance, and to whom shall you take refuge for help? and where will you leave your glory,
ISA 10:4 to not fall into enslavement? For they shall fall underneath the ones being done away with. And for all these things his anger shall not turn, but still his hand is high.
ISA 10:5 Woe to the Assyrians, the rod of my rage, and anger is in their hands.
ISA 10:6 I will send my anger against a lawless nation, and to my people I will give orders to cause spoils and plunder, and to trample the cities, and to make them into dust.
ISA 10:7 But he did not ponder thus, and the soul did not consider thus; but he shall dismiss his mind even to utterly destroy nations - not a few.
ISA 10:8 And if they should say to him, You alone are ruler;
ISA 10:9 then he shall say, Did I not take the place above Babylon and Chalanes, where the tower was built? and I took Arabia, and Damascus, and Samaria?
ISA 10:10 In which manner I took these, I shall take all the sovereignties. Shriek, O carvings in Jerusalem, and in Samaria!
ISA 10:11 For in which manner I did to Samaria, and its handmade things, so shall I do also to Jerusalem and to her idols.
ISA 10:12 And it will be whenever the LORD should complete all his doings on mount Zion and Jerusalem, he will strike against the great mind, against the ruler of the Assyrians, and against the haughtiness of the glory of his eyes.
ISA 10:13 For he said, I will act in strength; and in the wisdom of understanding I will remove boundaries of nations; and I will despoil their strength;
ISA 10:14 and I will shake the cities being inhabited; and I will overtake by hand the entire inhabitable world as a nest; and I will lift away as eggs being left behind; and there is not one who shall evade me or contradict me, even opening a mouth and chirping.
ISA 10:15 Shall the axe be glorified without the one beating with it? or shall the saw be exalted without the one drawing with it? Likewise shall any lift a rod or wood and it not be thus?
ISA 10:16 But the LORD of hosts sends for your honor - dishonor; and for your glory - fire; by a burning it shall be burnt.
ISA 10:17 And the light of Israel shall be for a fire; and he shall sanctify her in fire being burned; and it shall devour the woods as grass in that day.
ISA 10:18 the mountains shall be consumed, and the hills, and the forests; and it shall devour from soul unto flesh. And it will be the one fleeing will be as the one fleeing from a burning flame.
ISA 10:19 And the ones being left behind of them will be a small number, and a small child shall write them.
ISA 10:20 And it will be in that day, no longer will the one being left behind of Israel proceed; and the ones being preserved of Jacob no longer should be yielding upon the ones wronging them. But they will be yielding upon God, the holy one of Israel, in the truth.
ISA 10:21 And the one being left behind of Jacob will be relying upon the God having strength.
ISA 10:22 And if the people of Israel should become as the sand of the sea, the vestige of them shall be preserved.
ISA 10:23 For the matter is being completed, and being rendered concise in righteousness; for the LORD is the one rendering the matter concise. The LORD of forces shall act in the entire world.
ISA 10:24 On account of this, Thus says the LORD of hosts, Do not fear, my people, O ones dwelling in Zion, from the Assyrians! For with a rod he shall strike you. For he brings a calamity upon you, beholding the way of Egypt.
ISA 10:25 For yet a little time, and I will cease the anger; but my rage is against their plan.
ISA 10:26 And the LORD God of the forces shall arise against them according to the calamity of Midian in Place of Affliction. And his rage is the way by the sea, into the way according to Egypt.
ISA 10:27 And it will be in that day, I shall remove his yoke from your shoulder, and the fear of him from you; and the yoke shall be ruined from your shoulders.
ISA 10:28 For he shall come into the city of Angai, and shall go by to Meggido, and in Michmash he shall place his weapons.
ISA 10:29 And he shall go by the ravine, and shall come into Angai. Fear shall take hold of Ramah; the city of Saul shall flee.
ISA 10:30 Snort a sound of yours, O daughter of Gallim! Laish shall take heed; they shall take heed in Anathoth;
ISA 10:31 and Madmenah is startled, and the ones dwelling in Gebim.
ISA 10:32 Enjoin them today to abide in the way! Enjoin the mountain daughter of Zion, and the hills in Jerusalem!
ISA 10:33 Behold, the master, the LORD of hosts, puts in disorder the honorable ones with strength. And the haughty ones with insolence shall be broken, and the haughty ones shall be humbled.
ISA 10:34 And the haughty ones shall fall by the sword, and Lebanon will fall with the haughty ones.
ISA 11:1 And a rod shall come forth from out of the root of Jesse; and a flower from out of his root shall ascend.
ISA 11:2 And spirit of the LORD will be caused to rest upon him; a spirit of wisdom and understanding; a spirit of counsel and strength; a spirit of knowledge and piety;
ISA 11:3 a spirit of a fear of God shall fill him up. He shall not judge according to the glory of a man, nor shall he reprove according to the speech.
ISA 11:4 But he shall judge the case of the lowly, and shall reprove for the lowly of the earth. And he shall strike the earth by the word of his mouth; and by the breath through his lips he shall do away with the impious one.
ISA 11:5 And righteousness will be tied around his loin, and his sides being wrapped around with truth.
ISA 11:6 And the wolf shall be fed together with the lamb, and the leopard shall be refreshed together with the kid; and a young calf and a lion and a bull shall graze together; and a small child shall lead them.
ISA 11:7 And the ox and bear shall graze together, and their offspring will be together; and the lion shall eat straw as an ox.
ISA 11:8 And a child, an infant at burrows of asps, and at the bed of the progeny of asps, will put his hand.
ISA 11:9 And in no way shall they do evil nor be able to destroy any one upon my holy mountain. For the whole area is filled up to know the LORD, as much water to cover up the sea.
ISA 11:10 And it will be in that day the root of Jesse, and the one rising up to rule nations - upon him nations shall hope. And his rest will be honor.
ISA 11:11 And it will be in that day the LORD will proceed to show his hand to be zealous for the vestige of the people left behind, which ever should be left behind by the Assyrians, and by Egypt, and by Babylon, and by Ethiopia, and by the Elamites, and by the dawn of the sun, and from out of Arabia.
ISA 11:12 And he shall lift a sign unto the nations, and shall bring together the ones being destroyed of Israel; and he shall gather the ones being dispersed of Judah from out of the four wings of the earth.
ISA 11:13 And the jealousy of Ephraim shall be removed, and the enemies of Judah shall be destroyed. Ephraim shall not be jealous of Judah, and Judah will not afflict Ephraim.
ISA 11:14 And they shall fly in boats of the Philistines west; together they shall despoil even the ones from the dawn of the sun, and Edom; and they shall put hands upon Moab first; but the sons of Ammon at first shall obey.
ISA 11:15 And the LORD shall make the sea of Egypt desolate, and shall put his hand upon the river by a violent wind. And he shall strike seven ravines, so as to travel over it in sandals.
ISA 11:16 And there shall be a corridor to the one being left behind of my people, to the one being left behind from the Assyrians. And it will be to Israel as in the day when they came forth from out of the land of Egypt.
ISA 12:1 And he shall say in that day, I shall bless you, O LORD, for you were provoked to anger against me, and you turned away your rage, and showed mercy on me.
ISA 12:2 Behold, my God, my deliverer; I will be yielding upon him, and will not be fearful. For the LORD is my glory and my praise; and it became to me for deliverance.
ISA 12:3 Then draw water with gladness from out of the springs of deliverance!
ISA 12:4 And you shall say in that day, Sing praise to the LORD! Yell out his name! Announce among the nations his honorable deeds! Mention that his name was exalted!
ISA 12:5 Sing praise to the name of the LORD! For he did high things. Announce these things in all the earth!
ISA 12:6 Exult and be glad, O ones dwelling Zion! for the holy one of Israel is exalted in the midst of her.
ISA 13:1 The vision against Babylon, which Isaiah son of Amoz beheld.
ISA 13:2 Lift up a sign upon a mountain plain! Raise up high the voice to them! Do not fear! Call for aid with the hand! Open, O rulers!
ISA 13:3 I order, and I lead them. Giants come to fill my rage, rejoicing together and insulting.
ISA 13:4 A voice of many nations upon the mountains, like many nations; a voice of kings and nations being brought together. The LORD of hosts has given charge to a nation of armed warriors.
ISA 13:5 They come from out of a land at a distance, from the extremity of the foundation of the heaven - the LORD and his armed warriors, to ruin all the world.
ISA 13:6 Shriek! For the day of the LORD is near; and destruction by God shall come.
ISA 13:7 Because of this, every hand shall be loosened, and every soul of man shall be timid;
ISA 13:8 and the ambassadors shall be disturbed, and shall have their pangs as a woman giving birth; and they shall lament together - another to another; and they shall be startled; and they shall change countenance as a flame.
ISA 13:9 For behold, the day of the LORD comes - incurable - and divine anger. rage and anger, to make the world desolate, and to destroy the sinners from out of it.
ISA 13:10 For the stars of the heaven, and Orion, and all the cosmos of the heaven shall not give of their light. And the rising of the sun shall be made dark, and the moon shall not give her light.
ISA 13:11 And I charge evils to the entire world, and to the impious ones their sins. And I shall destroy the insolence of lawless ones, and will abase the insolence of the proud.
ISA 13:12 And the ones being left will be more rare than unfired gold; and a man will be more rare than the stone of Ophir.
ISA 13:13 For the heaven shall be enraged, and the earth shall be shaken from out of its foundation, because of the rage of the anger of the LORD of hosts, in the day which ever his rage should come about.
ISA 13:14 And the ones being left behind will be as a young doe fleeing, and as a sheep wandering; and there is not one gathering so as for a man to return to his people; and a man shall take flight unto his own place.
ISA 13:15 For who ever should capture shall be vanquished; and the ones who are being brought together shall fall by sword.
ISA 13:16 And they shall dash their children before them; and they shall despoil their houses; and they shall have their women.
ISA 13:17 Behold, I rouse against you the Medes - the ones not considering silver, nor have need of gold.
ISA 13:18 They shall break the bows of young men, and in no way shall they show mercy upon your children, nor shall their eyes spare your children.
ISA 13:19 And Babylon will be, ( the place which is called honorable by the king of the Chaldeans,) in which manner God eradicated Sodom and Gomorrah.
ISA 13:20 It shall not be dwelt in into the eon, nor shall they enter into it through many generations; nor shall the Arabians go through it; nor shepherds in any way shall rest in it.
ISA 13:21 And wild beasts shall rest there, and shall fill up the houses with a sound; and sirens shall rest there, and demons will dance there.
ISA 13:22 And satyrs shall dwell there, and hedgehogs shall build a nest in their houses.
ISA 14:1 Quickly it comes, and shall not pass time, and their days in no way shall drag. And the LORD shall show mercy on Jacob, and will choose yet Israel; and they shall rest upon their land, and the foreigner shall be added to them, and they shall be added to the house of Jacob.
ISA 14:2 And nations shall take them, and bring them into their place. And they shall inherit them, and shall be multiplied upon the land of God for menservants and maidservants; and the ones capturing them shall be captives; and they shall dominate the ones dominating them.
ISA 14:3 And it will be in that day the LORD will rest you from the grief, and your rage, and your hard slavery of which you slaved to them.
ISA 14:4 And you shall take up this wailing against the king of Babylon, and shall say in that day, O how the one exacting has been rested, and the taskmaster has been rested!
ISA 14:5 The LORD broke the yoke of the sinners, the yoke of the rulers;
ISA 14:6 having struck a nation in rage with an incurable calamity; hitting a nation with a calamity of rage, which he spared not - he rested persuading.
ISA 14:7 All the earth yells with gladness.
ISA 14:8 And the trees of Lebanon shall be gladdened against you, and the cedar of Lebanon, saying, From of which time you were laid low, there ascended not one felling us.
ISA 14:9 Hades from below was embittered meeting with you; all the giants ruling the earth were risen up together against you, the ones rising from their thrones, all the kings of the nations.
ISA 14:10 All shall answer and shall say to you, You also captured as even we; and are you reckoned among us?
ISA 14:11 Your glory went down into Hades - your great gladness. Underneath you they shall make a bed of putrefaction, and the worm shall be your covering.
ISA 14:12 O how the morning star fell from out of the heaven - the one rising by morning; the one sending to all the nations was broken unto the earth.
ISA 14:13 But you said in your heart, Unto the heaven I shall ascend; I will put my throne upon the stars of the heaven; I shall sit on a high mountain, upon the high mountains towards the north.
ISA 14:14 I will ascend upon the clouds; I will be likened to the highest.
ISA 14:15 But now you shall go down into Hades, and into the foundations of the earth.
ISA 14:16 The ones beholding you shall wonder over you, and shall say, Is this the man provoking the earth, the one shaking kings;
ISA 14:17 the one having made the inhabitable world desolate, and demolished its cities; the ones in enslavement he did not loose?
ISA 14:18 All the kings of the nations sleep in honor, every man in his house.
ISA 14:19 But you shall be tossed in the mountains as dead, being abhorred with many having died being stabbed by a sword, going down into Hades.
ISA 14:20 In which manner a garment being befouled by blood shall not be clean, so not even shall you be clean; for you destroyed my land, and killed my people; in no way should you abide into the eon of time, O evil seed.
ISA 14:21 Prepare your children to be slain for the sins of their father, that they should not rise up and inherit the earth, and should fill up the earth with wars!
ISA 14:22 And I will rise up against them, says the LORD of hosts, and will destroy their name, and vestige, and seed - thus says the LORD.
ISA 14:23 And I will make the Babylonian region desolate, so as for hedgehogs to dwell. And it will be for nothing; and I will make it a clay pit for destruction.
ISA 14:24 Thus says the LORD of hosts, In which manner I have said, so it will be. And in which manner I have deliberated, so it shall remain;
ISA 14:25 even to destroy the Assyrians upon my land, and upon my mountains; and they will be for trampling. And their yoke shall be removed from them, and their dignity shall be removed from their shoulders.
ISA 14:26 This is the plan which the LORD planned for all the inhabitable world. And this is the high hand upon all the nations.
ISA 14:27 For what the holy God planned, who shall efface? and who shall turn his high hand?
ISA 14:28 The year in which king Ahaz died came this saying.
ISA 14:29 Be not glad all Philistines, for he broke the yoke of the one hitting you. For from out of the seed of the serpent shall come forth a progeny of asps, and their progeny shall come forth as flying serpents.
ISA 14:30 And the poor shall be grazed by him; and poor men with peace shall rest. And he shall do away your seed with hunger, and your vestige he will do away with.
ISA 14:31 Shriek, O gates of the cities! Cry out, O cities! All the Philistines are being disturbed. For from the north smoke comes, and there is not the being.
ISA 14:32 And what shall the kings of the nations answer? For the LORD laid a foundation in Zion, and through him many peoples shall be delivered.
ISA 15:1 The word against Moab. The land of Moab shall be destroyed by night; for by night the wall of the land of Moab shall be destroyed.
ISA 15:2 Fret for them! For even Dibon shall be destroyed, where your shrine is. There you shall ascend to weep. Upon Nebo of the land of Moab shriek! Upon every head is baldness, all arms being mutilated.
ISA 15:3 In their squares you gird on sackcloths, and lament upon her roofs! And in her squares, and in her streets, all shriek with weeping!
ISA 15:4 For Heshbon and Elealeh have cried out. Unto Jahaz their sound was heard. On account of this the loin of the land of Moab yells. Her soul shall know.
ISA 15:5 The heart of the land of Moab yells in her unto Zoar; for it is as a three years old heifer. But upon the ascent of Luhith they shall ascend to you weeping; by the way of Horonaim she yells - defeat and quaking.
ISA 15:6 The water of Nimrim shall be desolate, and her grass shall fail; for there will not be green grass.
ISA 15:7 And shall she thus be about to be delivered? For I shall bring the Arabians upon the ravine, and they shall take it.
ISA 15:8 For the yelling joined up with the border of the land of Moab of Eglaim, and her shrieking - her shrieking unto the well of Elim.
ISA 15:9 For the water of Dimon shall be filled with blood. For I shall bring upon Dimon the Arabians, and I will lift away the seed of Moab, and Ariel, and the remnant of Adama.
ISA 16:1 I will send a male lamb lording over the land; is not the mountain of the daughter of Zion a desolate rock?
ISA 16:2 For you shall be as a young winged creature flying about being removed, O daughter of Moab; and thereupon, O Arnon.
ISA 16:3 Much counsel, and also always make a protection for her mourning! They flee darkness at midday; they are startled; you should not celebrate.
ISA 16:4 The exiles of Moab shall sojourn with you; they will be a protection to you from the face of one pursuing; for your alliance in war was lifted away, and the trampling ruler perished from the earth.
ISA 16:5 And a throne shall be set right with mercy; and one shall sit upon it with truth in the tent of David, judging, and inquiring of equity, and hastening righteousness.
ISA 16:6 We heard the insult of Moab - insulting exceedingly; the pride, and his insult, and his vehement anger - not so your divination.
ISA 16:7 Moab shall shriek; for in the land of Moab all shall shriek. But among the ones dwelling Seth you shall meditate upon, and you shall not be ashamed.
ISA 16:8 The plains of Heshbon shall mourn; the grapevine of Sibmah swallowing down the nations. Trample her grapevines unto Jazer! In no way shall you join together. Wander the wilderness! The ones being sent from her were abandoned, for they passed over the sea.
ISA 16:9 On account of this I shall weep as the one weeping of Jazer the grapevine of Sibmah. it cast down your trees O Heshbon and Elealeh; for upon the harvest and upon the gathering of your crops I shall trample, and all shall fall.
ISA 16:10 And gladness and the leap for joy shall be lifted away from the vineyards; and in your vineyards in no way shall they be glad; and in no way shall they tread wine in the wine-vats; for the vintage has been ceased.
ISA 16:11 On account of this my belly shall sound as a harp for Moab, and you renewed the things within me as a wall.
ISA 16:12 And it shall be for your feeling of shame (for Moab tired upon the shrines) that he shall enter unto the handmade things of hers so as to pray; and in no way should they be able to rescue her.
ISA 16:13 This is the saying which the LORD spoke against Moab.
ISA 16:14 And now the LORD spoke, saying, In three years, of the years of a hireling, the glory of Moab shall be dishonored in all the much richness; and very few shall be left behind, and not the important.
ISA 17:1 The word against Damascus. Behold, Damascus shall be lifted from cities, and will be for a downfall;
ISA 17:2 being left behind into the eon for a bed, and a rest for flocks, and there will not be one pursuing.
ISA 17:3 And no longer shall there be a fortified place to take refuge there for Ephraim; and no longer a kingdom in Damascus, nor a remaining of the Syrians. For you are not better than the sons of Israel, and their glory; thus says the LORD of hosts.
ISA 17:4 It shall be in that day an end of the glory of Jacob; and the plenty of his glory shall be shaken.
ISA 17:5 And it shall be in which manner as if someone should gather a standing harvest, and should reap the grain of an ear of wheat; and it shall be in which manner if someone should gather an ear of wheat in a solid rock ravine;
ISA 17:6 and as if stubble should be left behind in it, or as two or three olive stones elevated at the top of the tree, or four or five should be left behind upon their tender branches. Thus says the LORD God of Israel.
ISA 17:7 In that day man will be relying upon the one who made him, and his eyes shall look to the holy one of Israel.
ISA 17:8 And in no way should they be relying upon the shrines, nor upon the works of their hands which they made with their fingers; and they shall not look to the trees, nor their abominations.
ISA 17:9 In that day your cities shall be abandoned, in which manner the Amorites and the Hivites left before the face of the sons of Israel; and they shall be desolate places.
ISA 17:10 For you forsook the God your deliverer, even your God you remembered not. On account of this you shall plant an untrustworthy plant, and an untrustworthy seed.
ISA 17:11 And in the day whenever you should plant, you shall be misled; but if you should sow by morning it shall bloom for a harvest in whatever day of inheritance; and as a father of a man, you shall choose by lot for your sons.
ISA 17:12 Woe to the multitude of many nations; as a sea swelling up, so you shall be disturbed; and the sound of many nations shall sound as water.
ISA 17:13 As much water many nations; as much water being brought by force; and he shall curse one to be far from them; and at a distance from them he shall pursue, as dust of mountains being winnowed before the wind, and as a cloud of dust being brought of a blast of the wheel.
ISA 17:14 Towards evening there will be mourning; before morning, and he will not be. This is the portion of the ones despoiling us, and the inheritance to the ones having inherited us.
ISA 18:1 Woe, O land of boats of wings beyond the rivers of Ethiopia.
ISA 18:2 The one sending treaties and Bibline papyrus letters by the sea upon the water; for messengers of light shall go to an elevated nation, and a strange people, and ill-tempered. Who is it beyond a nation unhoped for, and the rivers of all the land being trampled now?
ISA 18:3 As a place being inhabited it shall be inhabited; their place as a signal flag should be lifted up from a mountain; as an audible trumpet sound.
ISA 18:4 For thus said the LORD to me; Safety will be in my city, as the light of sweltering heat at midday, and it will be as a cloud of dew in the day of harvest.
ISA 18:5 Before the harvest, whenever the flower should be completely formed, and the unripe grape should blossom a flower being sour, that he shall remove the small grape-clusters with the pruning sickles; and the small vine branches he shall remove and shall cut off.
ISA 18:6 And he shall leave them behind together for the winged creatures of the heaven, and for the wild beasts of the earth. And the winged creatures of the heaven shall be brought together upon them; and all the wild beasts of the earth shall come upon her.
ISA 18:7 In that time gifts shall be offered to the LORD of hosts from a people being afflicted and being plucked, and from a people great from the present, and into the eon of time; a nation hoping and being trampled, which is in a part of the river of his place, to the place where the name of the LORD of hosts is - in the holy mountain.
ISA 19:1 The vision of Egypt. Behold, the LORD sits upon a nimble cloud, and shall come to Egypt. And the handmade idols of Egypt shall be shaken before his face, and their heart shall be vanquished in them.
ISA 19:2 And Egyptians shall be roused against Egyptians, and every man shall wage war against his brother, and every man against his neighbor; city against city, and abode against abode.
ISA 19:3 And the spirit of the Egyptians shall be disturbed in themselves; and I shall efface their plan. And they shall ask of their gods, and of their statues, and the ones that speak out loud from out of the earth, and the ones delivering oracles.
ISA 19:4 And I will deliver up the Egyptian into the hands of men being hard masters; and hard kings shall lord over them. Thus says the LORD of hosts.
ISA 19:5 And the Egyptians shall drink water by the sea, for the river shall fail and shall dry up.
ISA 19:6 And the rivers and the aqueducts of the river shall fail; and all the gathering of water shall be dried up; and in every marsh of reed and papyrus,
ISA 19:7 and all the green round about the river, and all the thing being sown throughout the river, shall be dried, destroyed by the wind.
ISA 19:8 And the fishermen shall moan, and all the ones throwing a hook into the river shall moan; and the ones throwing dragnets, and the casting-net fishermen shall mourn.
ISA 19:9 And shame shall take the ones working the shredded flax, and the ones working the linen.
ISA 19:10 And the ones working them will be in grief; and all the ones making beer shall be fretful; and the souls shall cause pain.
ISA 19:11 And the rulers of Tanis will be morons; and the wise counselors of the king, their counsel will be moronish. How shall you say to the king, We are sons of discerning men, sons of kings from the beginning?
ISA 19:12 Where are they now - the wise ones of your's? and let them announce to you, and say what the LORD of hosts planned against Egypt.
ISA 19:13 The rulers of Tanis failed, and the rulers of Memphis are haughty; and they shall cause Egypt to wander, and the tribes.
ISA 19:14 For the LORD mixed to them a spirit addicted to a delusion; and they caused Egypt to wander in all her works, as the one being intoxicated wanders and the one vomiting together.
ISA 19:15 And there will not be work for the Egyptians, which shall make head or tail, and beginning or end.
ISA 19:16 In that day the Egyptians will be as women, in fear and in trembling from in front of the hand of the LORD of hosts, which he shall put upon them.
ISA 19:17 And the place of the Jews will be to the Egyptians for a fearful thing; any one who might name it to them shall fear because of the plan which the LORD of hosts planned against it.
ISA 19:18 In that day there will be five cities in Egypt speaking the tongue of the Canaanites, and swearing by an oath to the name of the LORD of hosts. The one city shall be called City of Asedek.
ISA 19:19 In that day there will be an altar to the LORD in the region of the Egyptians, and there will be a monument at its border to the LORD.
ISA 19:20 And it will be for a sign into the eon to the LORD in the place of Egypt; for they shall cry out to the LORD because of the ones afflicting them, and he shall send to them a man who shall deliver them - by judging he shall deliver them.
ISA 19:21 And the LORD will be made known to the Egyptians; and the Egyptians shall know the LORD in that day, and shall make a sacrifice offering and a gift offering; and shall vow vows to the LORD, and shall render them.
ISA 19:22 And the LORD shall strike the Egyptians with a calamity, and he shall heal them; and they shall be turned towards the LORD, and he shall listen to them, and shall heal them with healing.
ISA 19:23 In that day there will be a way of Egypt to the Assyrians, and the Assyrians shall enter into Egypt, and Egypt will go to the Assyrians, and the Egyptians shall serve to the Assyrians.
ISA 19:24 In that day Israel will be third with the Egyptians and with the Assyrians, being blessed in the land;
ISA 19:25 which the LORD of hosts blessed, saying, Blessed be my people, the one in Egypt, and the one among the Assyrians, and my inheritance Israel.
ISA 20:1 The year that Tartan entered unto Ashdod, when he was sent by Sargon king of the Assyrians, and waged war against Ashdod, and overtook it,
ISA 20:2 Then the LORD spoke to Isaiah son of Amoz, saying, Go and remove the sackcloth from your loin, and untie your sandals from your feet! And he did thus, going naked and barefoot.
ISA 20:3 And the LORD said, In which manner Isaiah my servant goes naked and barefoot - three years shall be signs and miracles to the Egyptians and Ethiopians;
ISA 20:4 for thus the king of the Assyrians shall lead the captivity of Egypt and Ethiopia, young men and old men, naked and barefoot, uncovering the shame of Egypt.
ISA 20:5 And they shall be ashamed being vanquished upon the Ethiopians of whom the Egyptians were relying, for they were their glory.
ISA 20:6 And the ones dwelling in the island shall say this in that day, Behold, we were relying to flee to them for help - the ones not able to be delivered from the king of the Assyrians; and how shall we be delivered?
ISA 21:1 The vision of the wilderness. As a blast might go through a wilderness; from out of the wilderness coming from land;
ISA 21:2 so a fearful and hard vision was announced to me - the one disregarding disregards; the one acting lawlessly acts lawlessly. The Elamites are upon me, and the ambassadors of the Persians come against me. Now I shall moan, and shall comfort myself.
ISA 21:3 Because of this my loin was filled with feebleness, and pangs took me as the one giving birth. I transgressed to not hear; I hurried to not see.
ISA 21:4 My heart wanders, and lawlessness immerses me; my soul attends to fear.
ISA 21:5 Prepare the table! Eat! Drink! Rising up are the rulers. Pull up shields!
ISA 21:6 For thus said the LORD to me, Proceeding, stand yourself as watchman, and whatever you should behold, announce!
ISA 21:7 And I saw riders - two horsemen, a rider of a donkey, and a rider of a camel. Listen with great hearing!
ISA 21:8 And call Uriah to the watchtower of the LORD! And he said, I stood always by day, and over the camp I stood all the night.
ISA 21:9 And behold, he comes - a rider of a double chariot. And responding he said, Has fallen, has fallen, Babylon and all her statues; and her handmade idols were broken unto the ground.
ISA 21:10 Hear, O ones being left behind, and O ones grieving! Hear what I heard from the LORD of hosts, what the God of Israel announced to you!
ISA 21:11 The vision of Edom. He called to me from Seir. Guard the parapets!
ISA 21:12 I guard in the morning, and the night; if you should seek, seek; and live with me!
ISA 21:13 In the forest by evening you shall bed down in the way of Dedan.
ISA 21:14 Bring water for meeting with the one thirsting, O ones dwelling in the place of Tema! Meet the ones fleeing with breads,
ISA 21:15 because of the multitude of the ones being slain, and because of the multitude of the ones wandering, and because of the multitude of the swords, and because of the multitude of the bows of the ones being extended, and because of the multitude of the ones fallen in the battle!
ISA 21:16 For thus the LORD said to me, Yet a year, as the year of a hireling, the glory of Kedar shall fail.
ISA 21:17 And the remnant of the strong bowmen of the sons of Kedar will be few. For the LORD God of Israel spoke.
ISA 22:1 The matter of the ravine of Zion. What happened to you that now you all ascended unto the roofs in vain?
ISA 22:2 the city was filled up of ones yelling. Your slain are not slain ones by swords, nor your dead dead ones by war.
ISA 22:3 All your rulers have fled together from the bow, they are being tied, and the ones being strong among you have fled at a distance.
ISA 22:4 On account of this, I said, Let me go, I shall weep bitterly! You should not grow strong to comfort me over the destruction of the daughter of my people.
ISA 22:5 For it is a day of disturbance, and destruction, and trampling, and an addiction to a delusion by the LORD of hosts. They wander in the ravine of Zion. They wander from small unto great upon the mountain.
ISA 22:6 But the Elamites took quivers, and men riders upon horses, and there was a gathering of a battle array.
ISA 22:7 And your choice ravines will be filled of chariots, and the horsemen shall obstruct your gates.
ISA 22:8 And they shall uncover the gates of Judah, and they shall look in that day unto the choice houses of the city.
ISA 22:9 And they shall uncover the hidden places of the houses of the Akra of David. And they saw that there were many more, and they turned the water of the ancient pool into the city;
ISA 22:10 and that they demolished the houses of Jerusalem for fortification of the walls of the city.
ISA 22:11 And you produced for yourselves water between the two walls inside the ancient pool, but you looked not to the one making it in the beginning; and the one creating it you beheld not.
ISA 22:12 And the LORD of hosts called for weeping in that day, and beating the breast, and shaving, and girding up sackcloths.
ISA 22:13 But they were making glad and leaping for joy, slaying calves, and sacrificing sheep so as to eat meats and to drink wine, saying, We should eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
ISA 22:14 And these things are being uncovered in the ears of the LORD of hosts, for this sin shall not be forgiven to you until whenever you should die.
ISA 22:15 Thus says the LORD of hosts, Go into the chamber, to Shebna the storekeeper, and say to him,
ISA 22:16 Why are you here? and what is it to you here that you quarried to yourself here a memorial, and made to yourself in a high place a memorial, and depicted to yourself a dwelling in the rock?
ISA 22:17 Behold, indeed, the LORD of hosts shall cast out and shall obliterate such a man, and shall remove your apparel, and your honorable crown,
ISA 22:18 and will toss you into a great and unmeasured place, and there you shall die; and he will establish your good chariot for dishonor, and the house of your ruler for trampling.
ISA 22:19 And you shall be removed from your administration, and from your station.
ISA 22:20 And it will be in that day, even I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Helkiah;
ISA 22:21 and I will put on him your apparel, and I will give to him your crown, and might, and your administration I will put into his hands; and he shall be as a father to the ones dwelling Jerusalem, and to the ones dwelling Judah.
ISA 22:22 And I will put to him the key of the house of David upon his shoulder; and he shall open, and there will not be one locking; and he shall lock, and there shall not be one opening. And I will give the glory of David to him; and he will rule, and there will not be one disputing.
ISA 22:23 And I will establish him as ruler in a trustworthy place, and he will be for a throne of glory of his father's house.
ISA 22:24 And every honorable one in the house of his father will be relying upon him, from small unto great - every small vessel from vessels of the cups. And they will be hanging upon him in that day.
ISA 22:25 Thus says the LORD of hosts, The man being fixed fast in a trustworthy place shall be moved; and the glory upon him shall be removed and shall fall and shall waste away - for the LORD spoke.
ISA 23:1 The matter of Tyre. Shriek, O boats of Carthage! For she perished, and no longer do they come from out of the land of Chittim - she is led captive.
ISA 23:2 To whom have the ones dwelling in the island become likened - traders of Phoenicia, passing through the sea;
ISA 23:3 in much water; a seed of traders; the traders of the nations as a harvest being carried in?
ISA 23:4 Be ashamed, O Sidon, said the sea! Even the strength of the sea said, I travailed not, nor gave birth, nor nourished young ones, nor raised up virgins.
ISA 23:5 But whenever it should become audible in Egypt, grief shall overtake them concerning Tyre.
ISA 23:6 Go forth to Carthage! Shriek, O ones dwelling in this island!
ISA 23:7 Was this not your insolence from the beginning, before she was delivered up?
ISA 23:8 Who planned these things against Tyre? Is she inferior, or not strong? Her merchants were the glorious rulers of the earth.
ISA 23:9 The LORD of hosts plans to disable all the insolence of the glorious ones, and to dishonor every glorious thing upon the earth.
ISA 23:10 Work your land, for even boats no longer come from out of Carthage!
ISA 23:11 And your hand no longer prevails against the sea, O one provoking kings. The LORD of hosts gave charge concerning Canaan, to destroy her strength.
ISA 23:12 And they shall say, No longer in any way should you proceed to insult, and to wrong the daughter of Zion; and if you should go forth to Chittim, not even there shall be rest to you.
ISA 23:13 And if you depart unto the land of the Chaldeans, even this was made desolate from the Assyrians. Not even there will rest be to you, for her wall has fallen.
ISA 23:14 Shriek, O boats of Carthage, for your fortress is destroyed!
ISA 23:15 And it will be in that day, Tyre shall be forsaken for seventy years, as the time of one king, as the time of a man. And after seventy years Tyre will be as the song of a harlot.
ISA 23:16 Take a harp! Stray, O harlot city being forgotten! Play the harp well! Sing much, that the memory of you takes place!
ISA 23:17 And it will be after the seventy years, God will make a visit to Tyre. And again she shall be restored to her ancient state, and shall be a market-place to all the kingdoms of the inhabitable world upon the face of the earth.
ISA 23:18 And her trade and wage will be holy to the LORD. Not to them shall it be brought, but to the ones dwelling before the LORD, even all her trade - to eat and to drink, and be filled, and for a compact memorial before the LORD.
ISA 24:1 Behold, the LORD lays waste the whole inhabitable world, and will make it desolate, and shall uncover its surface, and disperse the ones dwelling on it.
ISA 24:2 And the people will be as priests; and the servant as the master; and the female attendant will be as the lady; the one buying as the one selling; the one borrowing as the one lending; and the one owing as the one who is owed.
ISA 24:3 By corruption the earth shall be corrupted; and by plunder the earth shall be plundered - for the mouth of the LORD spoke these things.
ISA 24:4 The earth mourns, and the world is corrupted; the lofty ones of the earth mourn.
ISA 24:5 And the earth acted lawlessly on account of the ones inhabiting her; for they transgressed the law of the LORD, and effaced and bartered away the orders - the eternal covenant.
ISA 24:6 Therefore this curse shall devour the earth, for the ones dwelling it sinned. On account of this the ones dwelling on the earth will be poor, and a few men will be left behind.
ISA 24:7 The wine shall mourn, the grapevine shall mourn, all the ones being glad in soul shall moan.
ISA 24:8 The gladness of tambourines has ceased, self-sufficiency and of the impious ones riches has ceased, the sound of a harp has ceased.
ISA 24:9 They are ashamed, they did not drink wine, liquor became bitter to the ones drinking.
ISA 24:10 Every city was desolate - one shall lock the house to not enter.
ISA 24:11 Shriek, for the wine everywhere! All gladness of the earth has ceased; all gladness of the earth departed;
ISA 24:12 and desolate cities shall be left behind, and houses being abandoned shall be consumed.
ISA 24:13 All these things will be on the earth in the midst of the nations. In which manner as if one should glean an olive tree, thus shall they glean them, even as if the gathering a crop should cease,
ISA 24:14 And these in a voice shall yell out; but the ones being left behind upon the earth shall be glad together in the glory of the LORD. The water of the sea shall be disturbed.
ISA 24:15 On account of this the glory of the LORD will be among the islands of the sea - the name of the LORD will be honored.
ISA 24:16 O LORD God of Israel, from the wings of the earth we heard miracles - hope to the pious. But they shall say, Woe to the ones annulling - the ones annulling the law.
ISA 24:17 Fear, and a pit, and a snare is upon you, O ones dwelling upon the earth.
ISA 24:18 And it will be the one fleeing the fear shall fall into the pit; and the one going up from out of the pit shall be captured by the snare; for windows from out of the heaven were opened, and the foundations of the earth shall be shaken.
ISA 24:19 By disturbance the earth shall be disturbed; and with perplexity the earth shall be perplexed.
ISA 24:20 It leans and the earth shall be shaken as a storehouse of fruits - as the one being intoxicated and dizzy. And it shall fall, and in no way be able to rise up. For lawlessness shall grow strong upon it.
ISA 24:21 And it will be in that day God shall bring the hand against the cosmos of the heaven, and against the kings of the earth.
ISA 24:22 And they shall gather its congregation, and shall lock them into a fortress and in a jail; through many generations they will be visited.
ISA 24:23 And the brick shall melt away, and the wall shall fall, and the moon shall feel remorse, and the sun shall be ashamed, for the LORD shall reign in Zion, and from out of Jerusalem, and he shall be glorified before the elders.
ISA 25:1 O LORD my God, I will glorify you; I shall sing praise to your name; for you did wonderful things - true ancient counsel. May it be.
ISA 25:2 For you made cities into a heap of embankments - they were cities fortified to not fall of their foundations. The city of the impious ones in no way should be built into the eon.
ISA 25:3 On account of this, the poor people shall bless you, and cities of men being wronged shall bless you.
ISA 25:4 For you became a helper to every humble city, and a protection to the ones depressed on account of lack; you shall rescue them from wicked men; a protection of ones thirsting, and a fresh wind spirit. for men being wronged;
ISA 25:5 as faint-hearted men thirsting in Zion. For you shall rescue them from impious men, to whom you delivered us.
ISA 25:6 And the LORD of hosts shall make a feast for all the nations; upon this mountain they shall drink in gladness, they shall drink wine.
ISA 25:7 They shall anoint with a perfumed liquid on this mountain. You deliver all these things to the nations, for this plan is unto all the nations.
ISA 25:8 Death swallowed prevailing; and again the LORD God removed every tear from every face; he removed the scorn of the people from all the earth - for the mouth of the LORD spoke.
ISA 25:9 And they shall say in that day, Behold, our God upon whom we hoped, even he shall deliver us. This is the LORD; we waited for him, and we exulted and were glad over our deliverance.
ISA 25:10 God will give rest upon this mountain, and the land of Moab shall be trampled, in which manner they tread the threshing-floor with wagons.
ISA 25:11 And he shall unfasten his hands, in which manner even as he humbled to destroy. And he shall humble his insolence upon which he put his hands.
ISA 25:12 And the height of the refuge of your house he will lower, and it shall go down unto the ground.
ISA 26:1 In that day they shall sing this song upon the land of Judea, Behold, a strong city; and he shall establish our deliverance - the wall and rampart.
ISA 26:2 Open, O gates! Enter, O people guarding righteousness, and guarding truth;
ISA 26:3 taking hold of truth, and guarding peace!
ISA 26:4 For upon you we hoped, O LORD, unto the eon - the great eternal God;
ISA 26:5 who humbling, led down the ones dwelling in heights. You shall throw down fortified cities, and lead them down unto the ground.
ISA 26:6 And gentle feet will tread them, and of humble rostrums.
ISA 26:7 The way of the pious becomes straight; and the way of the pious is being prepared.
ISA 26:8 For the way of the LORD is equitable; we hoped upon your name, and upon the remembrance of you
ISA 26:9 which our soul desires. From out of the night my spirit rises early to you, O God, for your orders are light upon the earth. Learn righteousness, O ones dwelling upon the earth!
ISA 26:10 For the impious one ceases; in no way should he learn righteousness upon the earth; no way should he execute truth. Lift away the impious one, that he should not behold the glory of the LORD!
ISA 26:11 O LORD, your arm is high, but they knew not; but in knowing they shall be ashamed; zeal shall take hold of an uninstructed people; and now fire shall devour the adversaries.
ISA 26:12 O LORD our God, give peace to us - for all things you rendered to us!
ISA 26:13 O LORD our God, acquire us! O LORD, outside of you there is not another we know - we named your name.
ISA 26:14 But the dead in no way shall see life, nor shall physicians in any way raise them up. On account of this you struck, and destroyed; and you lifted away every male of them.
ISA 26:15 Add to them bad things, O LORD, add bad things to the noble ones of the earth!
ISA 26:16 O LORD, in affliction we remembered you; in small affliction your instruction is with us.
ISA 26:17 And as the travailing approaches to give birth, and over her birth pangs she cries out, so we were to your beloved.
ISA 26:18 Because of the fear of you, O LORD, we conceived in the womb, and travailed, and birthed the breath of your deliverance which you did upon the earth. We shall not fall, but all the ones dwelling upon the earth shall fall.
ISA 26:19 The dead shall rise up, and the ones in the sepulchres shall be raised, and the ones in the earth shall be glad, for the dew by you is a cure to them; but the land of the impious ones shall fall.
ISA 26:20 Proceed, O my people! Enter into your inner chambers! Lock your door! Be concealed a little, as much as this, as much as that, until whenever the anger of the LORD should go by!
ISA 26:21 For behold the LORD brings anger from the holy place upon the ones dwelling upon the earth; and the earth shall uncover her blood, and shall not cover up the ones being done away with any more.
ISA 27:1 In that day God will bring on the holy and the great and the strong sword against the dragon, the fleeing serpent - against the dragon, the crooked serpent. And he will do away with the dragon, the one in the sea.
ISA 27:2 In that day there shall be a good vineyard, and a desire to lead a song concerning it.
ISA 27:3 I am a fortified city, a city being assaulted. In folly I water her, for she shall be captured by night, and by day her wall shall fall.
ISA 27:4 There is not her who did not take hold of her; therefore because of this the LORD did all as much as he ordered - I am incinerated.
ISA 27:5 All the ones dwelling in her shall yell, saying, We should make peace with him, we should make peace.
ISA 27:6 The ones coming - children of Jacob. Israel shall burst forth and shall blossom, and the inhabitable world shall be filled with its fruit.
ISA 27:7 Is it not as he struck others, even he himself so shall be struck? and as he did away with, also he himself thus shall be done away with?
ISA 27:8 He shall send them out doing combat and berating. Were you not the one meditating with a harsh spirit, to do away with them in a spirit of rage?
ISA 27:9 On account of this the lawlessness shall be removed from Jacob; and this is his blessing - whenever I should remove the sin of his; whenever they should furnish all the stones of the shrines for being cut in pieces as fine powder; and in no way should their trees remain; and their idols shall be in the state of being cut down as a forest far off.
ISA 27:10 The flock dwelling there will be spared as a flock being left behind; and there will be much time for pasture, and there they shall rest.
ISA 27:11 And after much time there will not be in it any green thing on account of drying out. O women coming from a spectacle, come, for it is a people having not understanding. On account of this, in no way should the one making them pity, nor the one shaping them in any way show mercy.
ISA 27:12 And it will be in that day the LORD will shut up together from the aqueduct of the river unto Rhinocora. But you gather together the sons of Israel according to one by one!
ISA 27:13 And it will be in that day, they shall trump the great trumpet, and the ones being lost in the place of the Assyrians shall come, and the ones being lost in Egypt. And they shall do obeisance to the LORD upon the holy mountain in Jerusalem.
ISA 28:1 Woe to the crown of insolence, the hirelings of Ephraim, the flower, the one having fallen of the glory upon the top of the thick branched mountain; the ones being intoxicated without wine.
ISA 28:2 Behold, strong and hard is the rage of the LORD - as hail being carried down, not having protection; with force being carried down as a multitude of much water dragging a place along. In the land he shall cause rest to the hands.
ISA 28:3 And by the feet the crown of insolence shall be trampled, the hirelings of Ephraim.
ISA 28:4 And the flower shall be (the one having fallen off of the hope of the glory) upon the tip of the high mountain, as a forerunner of a fig. The one beholding it, before taking it into his hand, will want to swallow it down.
ISA 28:5 In that day the LORD of hosts will be the crown of hope, the one being plaited of glory to the one being left behind of my people.
ISA 28:6 And they shall be left behind in spirit of equity for judgment, and for the strength restraining doing away with.
ISA 28:7 For these are wandering in wine, wandering because of the liquor; the priest and prophet are startled because of the liquor, they are swallowed down because of the wine; they are shaken from the intoxication of the liquor; they wandered - this is a visible manifestation.
ISA 28:8 A curse shall devour this plan, for this plan is because of the desire for wealth.
ISA 28:9 To whom did we announce evils? and to whom did we announce a message - the ones being weaned from milk, and the ones being drawn away from the breast.
ISA 28:10 Affliction upon affliction; favorably receive hope upon hope; still a little, still a little,
ISA 28:11 because of disparagement of the lips; for they shall speak by another tongue to this people,
ISA 28:12 saying to it, This is the rest to the one hungering, and this is the destruction - and they wanted not to hear.
ISA 28:13 And the oracle of God will be to them, affliction upon affliction, hope upon hope, still a little, still a little; that they should go and should fall to the rear, and shall be exposed to danger, and shall be broken, and shall be captured.
ISA 28:14 On account of this, hear the word of the LORD, O men being afflicted, and rulers of this people in Jerusalem!
ISA 28:15 For you said, We made a covenant with Hades, and treaties with death; if a gale being brought should go by, in no way should it come to us; we made the lie our hope, and by the lie we shall be sheltered.
ISA 28:16 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Behold, I shall put for the foundations of Zion a very costly chosen cornering stone of value for her foundations; and the one believing upon him in no way should be disgraced.
ISA 28:17 And I shall place judgment for hope, and my charity by weights, and the ones relying vainly in a lie, that in no way should a gale go by you;
ISA 28:18 and your covenant of death should not have removed; and your hope towards Hades in no way should adhere. If the blast being brought should come, you will be for trampling by it.
ISA 28:19 Whenever it should go by, it shall take you. Morning by morning it shall go by you, and in the night it will be an evil hope. Learn to hear!
ISA 28:20 O ones having been restricted, we are not able to do combat; but ourselves - we weakened for you to gather.
ISA 28:21 As if a mountain of impious ones the LORD shall rise up; and it shall be in the ravine of Gibeon; with rage he shall execute his works - a work of bitterness; but his rage he shall treat strangely, and his rottenness in strangeness.
ISA 28:22 And you, may you not be glad, nor the bonds strengthen in you; for I heard the things being completed and being rendered concise by the LORD of Host, which he will do upon all the earth.
ISA 28:23 Give ear, and hearken to my voice! Take heed, and hear my words!
ISA 28:24 Shall not the one plowing be about to plow the entire day? or the one sowing, will he not prepare beforehand to work the ground?
ISA 28:25 Is it not whenever he should level the face of it, then sow the small pepperwort or cummin, and again sow wheat, and barley, and spelt, in your boundaries?
ISA 28:26 And you shall be corrected in the equity of your God, and shall be glad.
ISA 28:27 For not with hardness is the pepperwort cleansed, nor shall the wheel of a wagon lead about upon the cummin; but the pepperwort is shaken off by a rod.
ISA 28:28 But the cummin shall be eaten with bread, for I am not provoked to anger against you into the eon, nor shall the voice of my bitterness trample you.
ISA 28:29 And these miracles came forth by the LORD of hosts. Take counsel, exalt vain comfort!
ISA 29:1 Woe O city of Ariel, which David waged war. Gather together produce year by year, for you shall eat with Moab!
ISA 29:2 For I will squeeze Ariel, and her strength and riches will be mine.
ISA 29:3 And I will encircle as David upon you, and I will throw up a siege mound around you, and I will build, and I will set towers around you.
ISA 29:4 And your words shall be abased unto the ground; and unto the ground your words shall go down. And your voice will be as the ones speaking out loud from out of the earth; and to the ground your voice shall weaken.
ISA 29:5 And the riches of the impious ones will be as a cloud of dust from a wheel; and the multitude of the ones afflicting you will be as dust being borne about; and it will be immediate as a moment.
ISA 29:6 By the LORD of hosts; for there will be a visitation with thunder, and earthquake, and a great sound, a blast being borne about, and a flame of fire devouring.
ISA 29:7 And the riches of all the nations will be as ones dreaming in sleep, as many as march against Ariel, and all the ones soldiering against Jerusalem, and all the ones gathering together against her, and the ones afflicting her.
ISA 29:8 And they shall be as the ones in sleep drinking and eating and rising up. the dream of them is vain not real., and in which manner the one thirsting and drinking shall dream, and rising up they still thirst, and his soul hoped in vain, so will be the riches of all the nations, as many as marched against mount Zion.
ISA 29:9 Be loosened! Be amazed and be dizzy! Not from liquor nor from wine.
ISA 29:10 For the LORD has given you to drink a spirit of vexation. And he will close the eyelids of their eyes, and their prophets, and their rulers seeing the hidden things.
ISA 29:11 And all these sayings shall be to you as the words of this scroll having set seal; which if they should give it to a man having knowledge of letters, saying, Read these! Then he shall say, I am not able to read, for it is sealed.
ISA 29:12 And this scroll will be given into the hands of a man not having knowledge of letters. And one shall say to him, Read this! And he shall say, I have not knowledge of letters.
ISA 29:13 And the LORD said, this people approach unto me with their mouth, and by their lips they esteem me, but their heart is far off at a distance from me; and in vain they worship me, teaching the precepts and instructions of men.
ISA 29:14 On account of this, behold, I shall proceed to transpose this people; and I will transpose them, and I will destroy the wisdom of the wise ones; and I will hide the understanding of the discerning.
ISA 29:15 Woe to the ones deeply making plans, and not according to the LORD - woe to the ones making plans in secret, and their works shall be in darkness, and they shall say, Who has seen us? and who shall know us or what we do?
ISA 29:16 Shall you not be considered as clay for the potter? Shall the thing shaped say to the one shaping, You did not shape me. Or the thing made by the one making it, You did not expertly make me?
ISA 29:17 No longer a little while and Lebanon shall be transposed as the mountain of fruitful field; and the mountain of fruitful field shall be considered as a forest.
ISA 29:18 And in that day deaf-mutes shall hear the words of the scroll; and the ones in darkness, and the ones in fog - the eyes of the blind will see,
ISA 29:19 and the poor shall exult because of the LORD with gladness, and the ones despairing of men shall be filled up with gladness.
ISA 29:20 The lawless one failed, and the proud one is destroyed, and the ones acting lawlessly concerning evil shall be utterly destroyed,
ISA 29:21 even the ones causing men to sin by a word. And they shall make all the ones reproving at the gates to be considered for stumbling, for they bent away the just one by unjust acts.
ISA 29:22 On account of this, thus says the LORD concerning the house of Jacob, whom he separated from Abraham, Jacob shall not now be ashamed; nor now shall Israel change countenance.
ISA 29:23 But whenever their children shall behold my works, because of me, they shall sanctify my name, and shall sanctify the holy one of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.
ISA 29:24 And the ones wandering in the spirit shall know understanding, and the ones grumbling shall learn to obey, and the stuttering tongues shall learn to speak peace.
ISA 30:1 Woe, O children of defectors! Thus says the LORD, You made counsel, but not through me; and treaties not by my spirit, to add sins upon sins.
ISA 30:2 The ones going went down into Egypt (but of me they asked not) to be helped by Pharaoh, and sheltered by the Egyptians.
ISA 30:3 For the protection by Pharaoh will be to you for shame, and the ones relying upon Egypt for scorn.
ISA 30:4 For chiefs in Tanis are evil messengers.
ISA 30:5 In folly they labor over a people who shall not benefit them, neither for help, nor for benefit, but for shame, and scorn.
ISA 30:6 The vision of the four-footed, of the ones in the wilderness. In the affliction and in the straits are the lion and lion's cub; from there also asps and the progeny of flying asps; the ones who brought upon donkeys and camels of their riches to a nation who shall not benefit them for help, but for shame and scorn.
ISA 30:7 The Egyptians shall benefit you in vain and with emptiness. Report to them that, This comfort of yours is vain!
ISA 30:8 Now then while sitting, write these things upon a writing-tablet, and upon a scroll, for these things shall be for times of days, and even into the eon.
ISA 30:9 For a people are resisting persuasion; lying sons who were not willing to hear the law of God.
ISA 30:10 The ones saying to the prophets, Do not announce to us! and to the ones that see the visions, Do not speak to us! But speak to us, and announce to us another addicting delusion;
ISA 30:11 and turn us from this way! Remove from us this road, and remove from us the oracle of Israel!
ISA 30:12 On account of this, thus says the LORD, the holy one of Israel, Because you resisted persuasion to these words, and hoped upon a lie, and that you grumbled, and became relying upon this word,
ISA 30:13 therefore this will be to you - this sin will be as a wall of a fortified city immediately falling being captured, of which immediately is at hand the calamitous downfall.
ISA 30:14 And the calamitous downfall of it will be as the breaking of a receptacle of earthenware of a thin clay vessel, so that there should not be found among them even a potsherd in which to lift coals of fire, and with which to whistle up a little water.
ISA 30:15 Thus says the Lord, the LORD, the holy one of Israel, Whenever turning you should moan, then shall you be delivered; and you shall know where you were when you relied upon the vanities; your strength became vain, and you wanted not to hear.
ISA 30:16 But you said, Upon horses we shall flee. On account of this you shall flee and say, we will be upon light riders. On account of this, the ones pursuing you will be nimble.
ISA 30:17 On account of one voice thousands shall flee; and because of the voice of five many shall flee; until whenever you should be left behind as a mast upon a mountain, and as a flag borne upon a hill.
ISA 30:18 And again God will wait so as to pity you. And on account of this he shall be raised up high to show mercy on you; for the LORD your God is judge. Blessed are all the ones adhering in him.
ISA 30:19 For a holy people shall live in Zion. And Jerusalem in weeping wept, saying, Show mercy on me! He shall show mercy on you. When he perceived the sound of your cry he heeded you.
ISA 30:20 The LORD shall give to you bread of affliction, and scant water. And the ones misleading you no longer shall approach to you, for your eyes shall discover the ones misleading you,
ISA 30:21 and your ears shall hearken to the words of the ones following after you, misleading you. The ones saying, This is the way, we should go by it, whether right or whether left.
ISA 30:22 And you shall remove the idols being silver plated; and the ones being gilded you shall make into fine dust; and you shall winnow them as the water of a woman sitting apart, and you shall thrust them away as dung.
ISA 30:23 Then there will be rain for the seed of your land; and the bread from the produce of your land will be plenteous and lustrous; and your cattle shall graze in that day in a place fertile and broad-spaced;
ISA 30:24 your bulls and oxen working the ground shall eat straw being prepared from barley being winnowed;
ISA 30:25 and there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every elevated hill, water traveling over in that day, whenever many should be destroyed, and whenever towers shall fall;
ISA 30:26 and the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun; and the light of the sun will be seven-fold in the day whenever the LORD should heal the breaking up of his people, and shall heal the grief of your calamity.
ISA 30:27 Behold, the name the LORD comes after a long time - burning rage with glory. The oracle of his lips - an oracle full of anger; and the anger of his rage shall devour as fire.
ISA 30:28 And his breath, as water being dragged along in a ravine, shall come unto the neck, and be divided. He shall disturb nations for a vain addiction to a delusion, and an addiction to a delusion shall pursue them, and shall take them according to their face.
ISA 30:29 Must you not always be glad and enter into my holy places always, as ones solemnizing a holiday, and as ones being glad to enter with a pipe, into the mountain of the LORD, to the God of Israel?
ISA 30:30 And the LORD will make audible the glory of his voice; and the rage of his arm he will show with rage and anger. And as a flame devouring, he shall strike with a thunderbolt violently, even as water and hail being carried together by force.
ISA 30:31 For by the voice of the LORD the Assyrians shall be vanquished in the calamity in which he should strike them.
ISA 30:32 And it will be to him round about, from where was to him hope for help, upon whom he relied upon; they with tambourines and harps shall wage war on him from out of revolt.
ISA 30:33 For you shall be exacted before some days - not also to you was it prepared to reign? a deep ravine, wood being situated near a fire, and much wood - the rage of the LORD as a ravine burning under sulphur.
ISA 31:1 Woe to the ones going down into Egypt for help; the ones relying upon horses, and upon chariots, for they are many - even relying upon exceedingly many horses. And they hearkened not relying upon the holy one of Israel, and they sought not God.
ISA 31:2 And he wisely brought upon them bad things, and his word in no way shall be annulled. And he shall rise up against the houses of wicked men, and against their vain hope -
ISA 31:3 an Egyptian man, and not God. Their horses are flesh and not help. But the LORD shall bring his hand against them, and the ones helping shall tire, and together all will perish.
ISA 31:4 For thus said the LORD to me, In which manner whenever the lion or the cub should yell out over the game which he took, and shall cry out over it, until whenever the mountains should be filled up of his voice, and the prey are vanquished, and by the magnitude of rage they are scared; so the LORD of hosts shall go down to march upon mount Zion, upon her mountains.
ISA 31:5 As birds flying, so shall the LORD of hosts shield above Jerusalem; and he shall rescue and shall protect and shall deliver.
ISA 31:6 Turn, O ones consulting deep and lawless counsel - sons of Israel!
ISA 31:7 For in that day men shall totally reject the idols made by their hands - the things made of silver, and the things of gold, which their hands made.
ISA 31:8 And Assyria shall fall; not by the sword of man, nor shall the sword of man devour him; and he will not flee from in front of the sword, but the young men shall be for vanquishing.
ISA 31:9 For as a rock, they shall be taken hold of as for a siege mound, and shall be vanquished; but the one fleeing shall be captured; thus says the LORD, Blessed is the one who has a seed in Zion, and members of a family in Jerusalem.
ISA 32:1 For behold, a just king shall reign, and rulers with judgment shall rule.
ISA 32:2 And the man shall be hiding his words, and they shall be hid as of water being brought; and it shall be shone forth in Zion as a river being brought along, glorious in a thirsting land.
ISA 32:3 And no longer will they be relying upon men, but the ears they shall give to hear.
ISA 32:4 And the heart of the ones being weak shall take heed to hear, and the tongues stuttering quickly shall learn to speak peace.
ISA 32:5 And no longer shall they tell to the moronish to rule; and no longer shall your officers say, You be quiet!
ISA 32:6 For the moronish shall speak moronish, and his heart shall purpose vanities, to complete lawless deeds, and to speak a delusion against the LORD, to scatter hungering souls, and causing vain things for the thirsting souls.
ISA 32:7 For the counsel of the wicked shall plan lawless deeds to corrupt the lowly by unjust words, and to efface the words of the lowly in a case.
ISA 32:8 But the pious consult the discerning, and this counsel shall abide.
ISA 32:9 Rise up rich women, and hear my voice! Listen to my words O daughters in hope!
ISA 32:10 Make mention for the days of a year in grief with hope! The gathering of crops has been consumed, the sowing has ceased, and no longer should it come.
ISA 32:11 Be amazed! Let the ones persuading fret! Strip! Become naked! Gird the loins!
ISA 32:12 And beat upon the breasts! because of the desirable field, and the produce of the grapevine.
ISA 32:13 The land of my people is a thorn-bush; and grass shall ascend, and from out of every house gladness shall be lifted away.
ISA 32:14 The houses are being abandoned; they shall leave the riches of the city and desirable houses. And the towns will be caves unto the eon, a gladness for wild donkeys, pastures for shepherds;
ISA 32:15 until whenever spirit from on high should come upon you, and the fruitful field shall be wilderness, and the fruitful field shall be considered as a forest.
ISA 32:16 And judgment shall rest in the wilderness, and righteousness shall dwell in Carmel.
ISA 32:17 And the works of righteousness shall be peace; and righteousness shall reach rest, and the ones relying shall be unto the eon.
ISA 32:18 And his people shall dwell in a city of peace, and shall dwell in it being yielded up, and shall rest with riches.
ISA 32:19 And if hail should come down, it will not come upon you. And the ones dwelling in the forests will be yielding as the ones in the plain.
ISA 32:20 Blessed are the ones sowing by every water where the ox and donkey tread.
ISA 33:1 Woe to the ones causing misery, but no one makes you miserable; and the one disrespecting you, does not disrespect - the ones disrespecting shall be captured, and they shall be delivered up; and as a moth upon a cloak, so they shall be vanquished.
ISA 33:2 O LORD, show mercy on us, for we rely upon you! The seed of the ones resisting persuasion became for destruction; but our deliverance is in time of affliction.
ISA 33:3 On account of the sound of the fear of you peoples were amazed, and the nations were dispersed because of the fear of you.
ISA 33:4 But now your spoils shall be gathered, small and great; in which manner as if one should gather locusts, so they shall mock you.
ISA 33:5 Holy is the God dwelling in heavens. Zion shall be filled up with equity and righteousness.
ISA 33:6 They shall be delivered up to the law. Our deliverance is in treasuries. Located there are wisdom and higher knowledge and piety to the LORD; these are treasuries of righteousness.
ISA 33:7 Behold indeed, in the fear of you these shall be fearful. Whom you feared shall yell out because of you; for messengers shall be sent enjoining for peace, bitterly weeping.
ISA 33:8 For the ways of these shall be made desolate. Your fear of the nations has been made to cease, and the covenant is lifted away, and in no way shall you consider them men.
ISA 33:9 The land mourned. Lebanon is ashamed. Sharon became marshes. Galilee will be of distinction, and Carmel.
ISA 33:10 Now I shall rise up, says the LORD. Now I shall be glorified, now I shall be exalted.
ISA 33:11 Now you shall see, now you shall perceive, the strength of your spirit shall be in vain; fire shall devour you.
ISA 33:12 And the nations shall be for incinerating - as a thorn-bush in a field being tossed and being incinerated.
ISA 33:13 The ones at a distance shall hear what I did; and the ones approaching shall know my strength.
ISA 33:14 The lawless ones in Zion departed. Trembling shall take the impious ones. Who shall announce to you that a fire is being burned? Who shall announce to you the eternal place?
ISA 33:15 The one going in righteousness, speaking the straight way, detesting lawlessness and injustice, and shaking off bribes with the hands, of one weighing down the ears that he should not hear a judgment of blood, and closing the eyelids of the eyes that he should not behold injustice.
ISA 33:16 This one shall live in a high cave of strong rocks; bread shall be given to him, and his water is trustworthy.
ISA 33:17 You shall see a king with glory; and your eyes shall see a land at a distance.
ISA 33:18 Your soul shall meditate upon fear. Where are the academics? Where are the ones advising? Where is the one counting the ones being maintained?
ISA 33:19 A small and great people which did not take advice, nor perceived a deep voice, so that a people being treated as worthless should not hear, and there is not understanding to the one hearing.
ISA 33:20 Behold, Zion the city, our deliverance. Your eyes shall see Jerusalem as a rich city, tents which in no way shall be shaken, nor shall the stanchions of her tent be moved into the eon of time, nor in any way shall her rough cords be torn up.
ISA 33:21 For the name of the LORD will be great to you; with rivers and spacious and broad aqueducts. You shall not go this way, nor shall a boat being rowed go.
ISA 33:22 For my God is great; the LORD shall not pass me by; the LORD our judge; the LORD our ruler; the LORD our king; the LORD himself shall deliver us.
ISA 33:23 Your rough cords were torn, for your mast does not have strength, it leans, it shall not let down the shrouds, it shall not lift a signal flag until of which time it should be delivered up for plunder; therefore many lame men shall cause plunder.
ISA 33:24 And in no way shall the people dwelling in her say I am tired, for sin shall be forgiven to them.
ISA 34:1 Lead forward, O nations, and hearken, O rulers! Hear, O earth, and the ones living in it; O world, and the people in it!
ISA 34:2 For the rage of the LORD is upon all the nations, and his anger is upon their number, to destroy them and to deliver them up unto slaughter.
ISA 34:3 And the slain ones of theirs shall be tossed forth, and the dead ones. And the scent of them shall ascend, and the mountains shall be rained upon by their blood.
ISA 34:4 And all the powers of the heavens shall melt away. And the heaven shall coil up as a scroll. And all the stars shall fall as leaves fall from a grapevine, and as leaves fall from a fig-tree.
ISA 34:5 For my sword was intoxicated in the heaven. Behold, it shall go down upon Edom, and upon the people of the destruction with judgment.
ISA 34:6 The sword of the LORD was filled of blood thickened from the fat of lambs, and from the fat of he-goats and rams; for a sacrifice to God is in Bosor, and a great slaughter in Edom.
ISA 34:7 And the stout men shall be cast down with them, and the rams and the bulls. And the earth will be intoxicated from the blood, even their embankment; and they shall be filled up of their fat.
ISA 34:8 For it is a day of judgment of the LORD, and a year of recompense of judgment of Zion.
ISA 34:9 And her ravines shall be turned into pitch; and her land into sulphur; and her land will be in burning pitch
ISA 34:10 night and day; and it shall not be extinguished into the eon of time. And her smoke shall ascend upward; unto her generations she shall be made desolate, and for a long time she shall be made desolate.
ISA 34:11 Birds, and hedgehogs, and ibises, and crows shall dwell in her; and a surveying cord of desolation shall be put upon her; and satyrs shall live in her.
ISA 34:12 Her rulers will not be; for her kings and her great men will be for destruction.
ISA 34:13 And thorny woods shall grow up in their cities, and also in her fortresses; and they will be properties of sirens, and a courtyard of ostriches.
ISA 34:14 And demons shall meet with satyrs; and they shall yell another to the other; satyrs shall rest there, for they found for themselves a place of rest.
ISA 34:15 The hedgehog shall nest there, and the earth preserved her children with safety; there stags meet together, and beheld the faces of one another.
ISA 34:16 They go by in number, and not one of them perished; the other did not seek the other; for the LORD gave charge to them, and his spirit gathered them.
ISA 34:17 And he shall cast lots for them, and his hand divided out parts to them to graze. Into the eon of time you shall inherit; for generations of generations shall rest upon it.
ISA 35:1 Be glad, O thirsting wilderness! Exult, O wilderness, and bloom as a lily!
ISA 35:2 And the desolate places of the Jordan shall blossom and exult. The glory of Lebanon was given to it, and the honor of Carmel. And my people shall see the glory of the LORD, and the stature of God.
ISA 35:3 Be strong, O hands being forsaken, and knees being disabled!
ISA 35:4 Take comfort, O faint-hearted in mind! Be strong! Do not fear! Behold, our God recompenses judgment, and he will recompense. He himself shall come, and shall deliver us.
ISA 35:5 Then shall the eyes of the blind be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall hear.
ISA 35:6 Then the lame shall leap as a stag, and the tongue of the stammering will be plain; for water was torn forth in the wilderness, and a ravine in a thirsting land.
ISA 35:7 And the waterless place will be turned into marshes, and the thirsting land into a spring of water. There will be there a gladness of birds, properties of reed and marshes.
ISA 35:8 There will be there a pure way, and it shall be called a holy way; and in no way shall anything unclean pass by there; nor shall there be there an unclean way. But the ones having been scattered shall go upon it, and in no way shall they wander.
ISA 35:9 And there will not be a lion there. Nor the ferocious wild beasts in any way shall ascend unto it, nor even should it be found there. But the ones being ransomed shall go in it,
ISA 35:10 even ones being gathered together by the LORD. And they shall return, and shall come to Zion with gladness; even eternal gladness is upon their head. For upon their head is praise and a leap for joy. And gladness shall overtake them; grief and distress and moaning ran away.
ISA 36:1 And it came to pass the fourteenth year of the reigning of Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of the Assyrians ascended upon the fortified cities of Judea, and took them.
ISA 36:2 And the king of the Assyrians sent Rabshakeh from Lachish unto Jerusalem to king Hezekiah with a great force. And he stood by the aqueduct of the upper pool in the way of the field of the fuller.
ISA 36:3 And there came forth to him, Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah the manager, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder.
ISA 36:4 And Rabshakeh said to them, Speak to Hezekiah! Thus says the great king, the king of the Assyrians. What are you relying on?
ISA 36:5 Does the battle take place by a plan with the words of the lips? And now, upon whom are you relying, that you resist my persuasion?
ISA 36:6 Behold, you are relying upon this fractured rod of reed - upon Egypt; which if a man should stay his weight upon it, it shall enter into his hand, and shall puncture it. Thus is Pharaoh king of Egypt, and all the ones relying upon him.
ISA 36:7 And if you should say, Upon the LORD our God we rely on. Is he not whom Hezekiah removed his high places, and his altars; and he spoke to Judah and to Jerusalem, saying, In front of this altar do obesiance now!
ISA 36:8 But mix in with my master the king of the Assyrians, and I will give to you two thousand horses, if you are able to put riders upon them.
ISA 36:9 And how are you all able to turn to the face of the toparchs? The ones relying upon the Egyptians for a horse and rider are our servants.
ISA 36:10 And now, have we ascended without the LORD upon this place to wage war with it? The LORD said to me, Ascend upon this land, and utterly destroy it!
ISA 36:11 And Eliakim and Shebna and Joah said to him, to Rabshakeh, Speak indeed to your servants in Syriac, for we hear ourselves, and speak not to us in Jewish! for why do you speak unto the ears of the men standing upon the wall?
ISA 36:12 And Rabshakeh said to them, Is it to your master, or to you my master sent me to speak these words? Is it not to the men sitting upon the wall, that they should eat their dung, and drink their urine with you together?
ISA 36:13 And Rabshakeh stood, and yelled out with a great voice in Jewish, and said, Hearken to indeed the words of the great king, the king of the Assyrians!
ISA 36:14 Thus says the king, Do not let Hezekiah deceive you with words! in no way shall he be able to rescue you.
ISA 36:15 And do not let Hezekiah say to you that, God shall rescue you, and in no way shall this city be delivered into the hand of the king of the Assyrians!
ISA 36:16 Do not hearken to Hezekiah! Thus says the king of the Assyrians, If you want to be blessed, come forth to me, and you shall each eat of his own grapevine and fig-trees, and drink water from out of his own well,
ISA 36:17 until whenever I should come and should take you into a land as your land - a land of grain, and wine, and breads, and vineyards!
ISA 36:18 Let not Hezekiah deceive you! saying, God shall rescue us. Have the gods of the nations each rescued his own place from out of the hand of the king of the Assyrians?
ISA 36:19 Where is the god of Hamath and Arpad? and where is the god of the city of Sepharvaim? Have they been able to rescue Samaria from out of my hand?
ISA 36:20 Which of the gods of all these nations is the one who was rescued of his land from out of my hand, that the LORD shall rescue Jerusalem from out of my hand?
ISA 36:21 And they kept silent, and no one answered him a word by the assignment of the king, saying, No one is to answer.
ISA 36:22 And Eliakim the son of Helkiah the manager entered, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, to Hezekiah, having split their inner garments. And they announced to him the words of Rabshakeh.
ISA 37:1 And it came to pass in king Hezekiah hearing, he split his garments, and put on sackcloth, and ascended unto the house of the LORD.
ISA 37:2 And he sent Eliakim the manager, and Shebna the scribe, with the elders of the priests, putting on sackcloths, to Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet.
ISA 37:3 And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah, A day of affliction, and scorning, and rebuke, and anger is today's day. For the pangs in giving birth come, but she has not strength to give birth.
ISA 37:4 If by any means the LORD your God may listen to the words of Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of the Assyrians sent to berate the living God, and to berate by the words which the LORD your God heard, therefore you shall make beseechment to the LORD your God concerning these surviving.
ISA 37:5 And the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
ISA 37:6 And Isaiah said to them, Thus you shall say to your master, Thus says the LORD, You should not be fearful of the words which you heard, which the ambassadors of the king of the Assyrians berated me.
ISA 37:7 Behold, I shall put upon him a spirit, and hearing a message he shall return unto his place, and he shall fall by the sword in his land.
ISA 37:8 And Rabshakeh returned, and overtook the king of the Assyrians while assaulting Libna, for he heard that he departed from Lachish.
ISA 37:9 And there came forth Tirhakah king of the Ethiopians to assault him. And hearing he returned and sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
ISA 37:10 Thus you shall say to Hezekiah king of Judea, Let not your God deceive you, upon whom you rely upon him! saying, In no way shall Jerusalem be delivered up into the hand of the king of the Assyrians.
ISA 37:11 Behold, have you not heard what the kings of the Assyrians did; how they destroyed the whole earth - and shall you be rescued?
ISA 37:12 Have the gods of the nations rescued them whom my fathers destroyed - both Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, which are in the place of Telassar?
ISA 37:13 Where are the kings of Hamath? and where is Arphad? and where is the city Sepharvaim, Henah and Ivah?
ISA 37:14 And Hezekiah took the scroll from the messengers, and read it. And he ascended into the house of the LORD, and opened it before the LORD.
ISA 37:15 And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD, saying,
ISA 37:16 O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, the one sitting upon the cherubim, you are God alone, of every kingdom of the inhabitable world. You made the heaven and the earth.
ISA 37:17 Lean, O LORD, your ear! Hearken, O LORD! Open, O LORD, your eyes! Look in, O LORD, and know and hear all the words of Sennacherib which he sent to berate the living God!
ISA 37:18 For in truth, O LORD, the kings of the Assyrians made desolate the entire inhabitable world, and their region.
ISA 37:19 And they raised their idols unto the fire, for they were not gods, but works of the hands of men - wood and stones. And they destroyed them.
ISA 37:20 But now, O LORD our God, deliver us from out of his hand, that every kingdom of the earth should know that you are God alone!
ISA 37:21 And Isaiah son of Amoz was sent to Hezekiah. And he said to him, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, I heard what you prayed to me concerning Sennacherib king of the Assyrians.
ISA 37:22 This is the word which God spoke concerning him; The virgin daughter of Zion treated you as worthless and sneered at you; the daughter of Jerusalem shook her head against you.
ISA 37:23 To whom did you berate and provoke? or to whom did you raise up high your voice, and lifted your eyes unto the height - against the holy one of Israel?
ISA 37:24 For through messengers you berated the LORD. For you said, With the multitude of chariots I shall ascend unto the height of mountains, and into the ends of Lebanon; and I felled the height of its cedar, and the beauty of the cypress; and I entered unto the height of the portion of the forest;
ISA 37:25 and I made a dam, and made desolate the waters and every gathering of water.
ISA 37:26 Have you not heard these things which I did earlier? From ancient days I ordered it. But now I displayed to make nations in fortified places desolate, and the ones living in fortified cities.
ISA 37:27 I weakened the hands, and they were dried up; and they became as dry grass upon the roofs, and as wild grass.
ISA 37:28 But now I know your rest and your exit and your entrance,
ISA 37:29 and your rage which you were enraged - even your bitterness ascended to me. And I will put a rein into your nose, and a bit into your lips, and I will return you in the way in which you came by it;
ISA 37:30 and this is the sign to you, Eat this year what you have sown; and the second year the vestige; and the third year, sow, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat of their fruit!
ISA 37:31 And they shall be the ones being left behind in Judea. They shall germinate a root below, and they shall produce grain upward.
ISA 37:32 For from out of Jerusalem shall come forth the ones surviving, and the ones being preserved from out of mount Zion. The zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do these things.
ISA 37:33 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of the Assyrians, In no way shall he enter into this city, nor throw an arrow against it, nor shall he put a shield against it, nor shall he encircle a siege mound against it.
ISA 37:34 But in the way in which he came by it, he shall return; and in no way shall he enter into this city. Thus says the LORD.
ISA 37:35 I will shield over this city to deliver it, because of myself and because of David my servant.
ISA 37:36 And an angel of the LORD came forth, and did away with the camp of the Assyrians - a hundred eighty-five thousand. And rising up in the morning, he found all the dead bodies.
ISA 37:37 And he went forth returning. And Sennacherib king of the Assyrians returned, and lived in Nineveh.
ISA 37:38 And while he did obeisance in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him with swords; and they came through safe into Armenia. And Esar-haddon his son took reign instead of him.
ISA 38:1 And it came to pass in that time Hezekiah was infirm unto death. And there came to him Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet. And he said to him, Thus says the LORD, Give orders concerning your house, for you die, and shall not live!
ISA 38:2 And Hezekiah turned his face to the wall, and prayed to the LORD,
ISA 38:3 saying, Remember, O LORD, as I was gone before you with truth, in a true heart, and the things pleasing before you I did. And Hezekiah wept a great weeping.
ISA 38:4 And the word of the LORD came to Isaiah, saying,
ISA 38:5 Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father, I heard your prayer, and beheld your tears. Behold, I add to your time fifteen years.
ISA 38:6 And from out of the hand of the king of the Assyrians I shall rescue you, and this city - and I shall shield over this city.
ISA 38:7 And this is the sign to you from the LORD, that God will do this thing which he said.
ISA 38:8 Behold, I shall turn the shadow of the stairs which the sun went down the ten stairs of the house of your father. I will return the sun the ten stairs which the shadow went down.
ISA 38:9 The prayer of Hezekiah king of Judea when he was infirm, and rose up from his infirmity.
ISA 38:10 I said in the height of my days, I shall go to the gates of Hades. I shall forsake the years remaining.
ISA 38:11 I said, No longer in any way shall I behold the deliverance of God upon the land of the living. No longer in any way shall I behold a man with ones inhabiting.
ISA 38:12 I failed my kin; I forsook the rest of my life; it departed and went forth from me as the one resting up pitching a tent. My spirit in me became as the web of one working in wool approaching to cut it off.
ISA 38:13 In that day I was delivered over until morning. As a lion so he broke all my bones. For from the day until the night I was delivered over.
ISA 38:14 As a swallow, so shall I call out, and as a dove, so shall I meditate. For my eyes failed to see into the height of the heaven, to the LORD who rescued me.
ISA 38:15 And he removed the grief of my soul, and he acted.
ISA 38:16 O LORD, for concerning this it was announced to you, and you awakened my breath, and being comforted, I live.
ISA 38:17 Behold, being in peace was bitter for me. For you took up my soul that it should not perish; and you threw away all my sins behind me.
ISA 38:18 For the ones in Hades shall not praise you; nor the ones dying shall bless you; nor shall the ones in Hades hope on your charity.
ISA 38:19 The living shall bless you in which manner as I. For from today I shall produce children who shall announce your righteousness.
ISA 38:20 O LORD of my deliverance, even I will not cease blessing you with the psaltery all the days of my life before the house of God.
ISA 38:21 And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Take a dried cluster of figs, and grind them, and plaster over, and you will be in health!
ISA 38:22 And Hezekiah said, What is the sign that I shall ascend into the house of God.
ISA 39:1 In that time Merodach Baladan the son of Baladan the king of Babylonia sent letters, and ambassadors, and gifts to Hezekiah; for he heard that he was infirm unto death, and was raised up.
ISA 39:2 And Hezekiah rejoiced over them with a great joy, and showed to them the house of the spices, and of the silver, and of the gold, and of the balsam, and of the incenses, and of the perfumed liquid, and all the houses of the items of the treasury, and all as much as was in his treasuries. And there was not one thing which Hezekiah did not show to them in his house.
ISA 39:3 And Isaiah the prophet came to king Hezekiah, and said to him, What did these men say? and from what place have they come to you? And Hezekiah said, From a land at a distance - they have come to me from Babylon.
ISA 39:4 And Isaiah said, What did they see in your house? And Hezekiah said, All the things in my house they beheld; and there is not anything in my house which they beheld not - but even the things in my treasuries.
ISA 39:5 And Isaiah said to him, Hear the word of the LORD of hosts!
ISA 39:6 Behold, days come, and they shall take all the things in your house, and as much as your fathers brought together until this day - it shall come unto Babylon, and not one thing in any way should survive. and God said,
ISA 39:7 for even of your children whom you engendered they shall take; and they shall be made castrati in the house of the king of the Babylonians.
ISA 39:8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, the word of the LORD is good which you spoke - let there be indeed peace and righteousness in my days!
ISA 40:1 Take comfort, take comfort, my people, says your God!
ISA 40:2 O priests, speak to the heart of Jerusalem! Comfort her! For her humiliation was filled up; her sin is untied; for she received from the hand of the LORD double her sins.
ISA 40:3 A voice yelling in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the LORD! Make straight the roads of our God!
ISA 40:4 Every ravine shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be lowered; and all the crooked paths shall be for straight, and the rough into smooth plains.
ISA 40:5 And the glory of the LORD shall be seen, and all flesh shall see the deliverance of God - for the LORD said it.
ISA 40:6 A voice saying, Yell! And I said, What shall I yell? All flesh is as grass, and all glory of man is as the flower of grass;
ISA 40:7 the grass is dried, and the flower fell off, for breath of God breathed on it. Truly the grass is the people.
ISA 40:8 The grass is dried, the flower fell off, but the word of our God abides into the eon.
ISA 40:9 Ascend upon the high mountain, O one announcing good news of Zion! Raise up high in the strength of your voice, O one announcing good news of Jerusalem! Raise it up high! Do not fear! Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God!
ISA 40:10 Behold, the Lord; the LORD comes with strength, even the arm with dominion. Behold, his wage is with him, and the work before him.
ISA 40:11 As a shepherd he shall tend his flock, and his arm shall gather the lambs, and he shall comfort the one having one in the womb.
ISA 40:12 Who measured the water with the hand, and the heaven with a span, and all the earth in a handful? Who established the mountains weight, and the groves in a yoke balance scale?
ISA 40:13 Who knew the mind of the LORD? and who became his counselor? Who shall instruct him?
ISA 40:14 Or whom did he take up advice with, and instructed him? Or who showed to him equity? Or who showed to him a way of understanding?
ISA 40:15 Since all the nations were considered as a drop from a pail and as the crux of a yoke balance scale; and they are considered as saliva.
ISA 40:16 And Lebanon is not fit for burning, and all the four-footed are not fit for a whole offering;
ISA 40:17 and all the nations are as nothing; and were considered as nothing to him.
ISA 40:18 To whom did you liken the LORD, and to what representation did you liken him?
ISA 40:19 Has not the fabricator made an image? Or the goldsmith having cast gold, gilt it over, and carefully prepared it for a representation?
ISA 40:20 For the fabricator chooses incorruptible wood, and wisely seeks how to station his image, that it should not be shaken.
ISA 40:21 Will you not know? Will you not hear? Was it not announced from the beginning to you? Did you not know the foundations of the earth?
ISA 40:22 He is the one controlling the curve of the earth, and the ones dwelling in it are as locusts; He is the one establishing the heaven as a vault, and extending it out as a tent to dwell in;
ISA 40:23 the one establishing rulers to rule as nothing; and he made the earth as nothing.
ISA 40:24 For not in any way shall they plant, nor shall they sow, nor shall they be rooted in the earth of their root. He breathed upon them, and they were dried up; and a blast shall take them away as sticks.
ISA 40:25 Now then, to whom did you liken me that I shall be exalted, said the holy one?
ISA 40:26 Look up into the height with your eyes, and behold who introduced all these things! The one bringing forth his cosmos by number shall call all things by name by great glory, and by the might of strength. Nothing of which you are unaware.
ISA 40:27 For you should not say, O Jacob, and why did you speak, O Israel, saying, My way was concealed from God, and my God removed judgment, and departed.
ISA 40:28 And now, did you not know unless you heard? the eternal God, the God carefully preparing the tips of the earth, he shall not hunger nor tire, nor is there a finding out of his intelligence;
ISA 40:29 giving strength to the ones hungering, and distress to the ones not grieving.
ISA 40:30 For younger men shall hunger, and the young shall tire, and the chosen men will be without strength.
ISA 40:31 But the ones waiting upon God shall change in strength; they shall grow wings as eagles; they shall run and shall not tire; they shall proceed and shall not hunger.
ISA 41:1 Dedicate a feast to me, O islands! for the rulers shall change strength. Let them approach and speak together; then let them announce judgment!
ISA 41:2 Who awakened righteousness from the east, called it by his feet, and it shall go? He shall appoint against nations, and he shall recede kings, and shall put their swords into the earth, and their bows as sticks being pushed out.
ISA 41:3 And he shall pursue them - the way of his feet shall go through in peace.
ISA 41:4 Who exerted energy and did these things? He called her - the one calling her, from the beginning of generations - I God, the first, and into the coming, I am.
ISA 41:5 Nations beheld and feared; the tips of the earth are startled; they approached, and came together;
ISA 41:6 judging each for the neighbor, and helping for the brother; and shall say,
ISA 41:7 The man was strong - the fabricator, and the brazier beating with a hammer, forging together; how long then shall he say, The coupling is good, they strengthened them with nails; they shall establish them, and it shall not be moved.
ISA 41:8 But you, Israel, my servant, Jacob whom I chose, seed of Abraham whom I loved;
ISA 41:9 whom I took hold of from the uttermost parts of the earth, and from out of its heights called you, and said to you, You are my servant; I chose you, and did not abandon you.
ISA 41:10 Fear not, for I am with you! Wander not, for I am your God, the one strengthening you! And I will give help to you, and safeguard you by my just right hand.
ISA 41:11 Behold, all your adversaries shall be ashamed and shall be respectful, for they will be as not existing; and all your opponents shall perish.
ISA 41:12 You shall seek them, and in no way shall you find the men who shall insult while drunk with wine against you, for they shall be as ones not being; and the ones waging war against you shall not be.
ISA 41:13 For I am your God, the one holding your right hand, the one saying to you,
ISA 41:14 Do not fear, O Jacob, O Israel, very few in number! I gave help to you, says your God, the one ransoming you, O Israel.
ISA 41:15 Behold, I made you as wheels of a wagon threshing - new, toothed. And you shall thresh mountains, and shall thin out hills, and make as dust.
ISA 41:16 And you shall winnow, and a wind shall take them, and a gale shall scatter them. But you shall be glad among the holy ones of Israel.
ISA 41:17 And the poor and the ones lacking will exult, for they shall seek water, and it will not be; their tongue was dried up from the thirst. I the LORD shall heed, the God of Israel, and I will not abandon them.
ISA 41:18 But I will open rivers upon the mountains, and springs in the midst of plains. I will make the wilderness into marshes of waters, and the thirsting ground in aqueducts.
ISA 41:19 I will put into the waterless earth the cedar, and boxwood, and myrtle, and cypress, and white poplar;
ISA 41:20 that they should behold, and should know, and should reflect on, and should have knowledge of together, that the hand of the LORD did these things, and the holy one of Israel introduced them.
ISA 41:21 Your judgment approaches, says the LORD God; your counsels approached, says the king of Jacob.
ISA 41:22 Let them approach and announce to you what shall come to pass, or the things prior to what it was you said! And we will attend our mind, and we shall know what the last things, and the ones coming are.
ISA 41:23 Tell to us! Announce the things coming at the latter end, and we shall know that you are gods! Do good, and do evil, and we shall wonder, and we shall see at the same time,
ISA 41:24 for from what place you are, and from what place your work is from! They chose you an abomination out of the earth.
ISA 41:25 But I raised the one from the north, and the one from the sun eastward - they shall be called by my name. Let the rulers come! And as clay of a potter, and as a potter trampling the clay, so you shall be trampled.
ISA 41:26 For who shall announce the things from the beginning, that we should know? and the things happening before, and we shall say that they are true? There is not the one speaking beforehand, nor one hearing your words.
ISA 41:27 I will give sovereignty to Zion, and I will comfort Jerusalem in the way.
ISA 41:28 For from the nations, behold, there was no one; and from their idols there was not one announcing. And if I should ask them, From what place are you - in no way should they answer to me.
ISA 41:29 For they are the ones making you, so you say, and in folly ones misleading you.
ISA 42:1 Jacob, my child - I shall take hold of him. Israel, my chosen - my soul favorably received him. I have put my spirit upon him; he shall bring forth judgment to the nations.
ISA 42:2 He shall not cry out, nor shall he spring up, nor shall his voice be heard outside.
ISA 42:3 A reed being crushed he will not break, and smoking flax he will not extinguish; but to validity he will bring forth judgment.
ISA 42:4 He shall illuminate, and shall not be devastated until whenever he should set judgment upon the earth. And upon his name nations shall hope.
ISA 42:5 Thus says the LORD God, the one making the heaven, and pitching it; solidifying the earth, and the things in it; and giving breath to the people upon it, and spirit to the ones treading it.
ISA 42:6 I the LORD God called you in righteousness, and I shall hold your hand, and shall strengthen you; and I gave you for a covenant of a race, for a light of nations;
ISA 42:7 to open the eyes of the blind, to lead out of bonds ones being tied from out of the house of prison, and ones sitting in darkness.
ISA 42:8 I am the LORD God. This is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my virtues to the carvings.
ISA 42:9 The things from the beginning, behold, they have come, even new things which I shall announce; and before the announcing it was made manifest to you.
ISA 42:10 Sing to the LORD a new hymn! Glorify his name from the uttermost part of the earth, O ones going down into the sea, and sailing it; the islands, and the ones dwelling in them!
ISA 42:11 Be glad, O wilderness, and her towns, properties, and the ones dwelling in Kedar! The ones dwelling in the rock Petra shall be glad.. From the tip of the mountains they shall yell.
ISA 42:12 They shall give to God glory; they shall report his virtues in the islands.
ISA 42:13 The LORD God of the forces shall go forth, and shall break war. He shall rouse zeal, and shall yell against his enemies with strength.
ISA 42:14 I kept silent from the eon; shall I also continually keep silent and endure? As the woman giving birth perseveres, I will now amaze and dry out at the same time.
ISA 42:15 I will make mountains and hills desolate, and will dry out all their grass. And I will make rivers into islands, and marshes to dry land.
ISA 42:16 And I will lead the blind in the way which they knew not; and I will cause them to tread roads which they had not seen. I will make for them darkness into light, and crooked into straight. These are the things I will do to them, and I shall not abandon them.
ISA 42:17 But they were turned into the rear. You should be ashamed with shame, O ones relying upon the carvings, O ones saying to the molten images, You are our gods.
ISA 42:18 O deaf-mutes, hear! And O blind, look up to behold!
ISA 42:19 And who is blind, but my servants? and who are deaf-mutes, but the ones dominating them? Who is blind as the one receiving? Even the servants of God were blinded.
ISA 42:20 You beheld many times, and watched not; opening the ears, and heard not.
ISA 42:21 The LORD God willed that he should be justified, and should magnify praise.
ISA 42:22 And I beheld, and it came to pass the people were being despoiled and plundered; for the snare is in the storerooms everywhere, and in the houses together where they hid them; they became for plunder, and there was not the one rescuing one seized; and there was not the one saying, Give back!
ISA 42:23 Who among you shall give ear to these things which shall be heard for the things coming about?
ISA 42:24 Who gave Jacob for ravaging, and Israel to the ones plundering? Was it not God to whom they sinned? and they wanted not to go in his ways, nor to hear his law.
ISA 42:25 And he brought upon them the anger of his rage; and the war strengthened against them and the ones burning them round about; and each of them did not know, nor put it unto their soul.
ISA 43:1 And now, thus says the LORD God, the one making you, O Jacob, and the one shaping you, O Israel, Do not fear! For I ransomed you, I called you by your name; you are mine.
ISA 43:2 And if you should pass over through water, I am with you; and rivers shall not engulf you. And if you go through fire, in no way should you be incinerated; a flame shall not incinerate you.
ISA 43:3 For I am the LORD your God, the holy one of Israel, the one delivering you. I made a barter for you - Egypt, and Ethiopia, and Seba for you.
ISA 43:4 From of which time you were esteemed valuable before me, you were glorified, and I loved you. And I will give men for you, and rulers for your head.
ISA 43:5 Do not fear, for I am with you! From the east I will lead your seed, and from the west I will bring you together.
ISA 43:6 I will say to the north, Bring! And to the south, Restrain not! Bring my sons from a land at a distance, and my daughters from uttermost parts of the earth,
ISA 43:7 even all, as many as have been called upon to my name. For in my glory I carefully prepared him, and I shaped him, and I made him.
ISA 43:8 And I brought out a blind people, and the eyes are likewise blind; and deaf ones having the ears.
ISA 43:9 All the nations were brought together, and rulers from them shall be brought together. Who will announce these things? Or the things from the beginning, who will announce? Let them bring their witnesses, and let them be justified, and let them hear, and let them speak truth!
ISA 43:10 Be witnesses to me! Even I witness, says the LORD God, and my servant whom I chose. That you should know, and should trust, and should perceive that I am. Before me another God did not exist, and after me it will not be.
ISA 43:11 I am God, and besides me there is not one delivering.
ISA 43:12 I announced it, and I delivered. I berated, and there was not among you an alien god. You are to me witnesses, and I am the LORD God,
ISA 43:13 Even from the beginning; and there is not one taking from my hands. I will do, and who shall turn it?
ISA 43:14 Thus says the LORD God, the one ransoming you, the holy one of Israel. Because of you I will send unto Babylon, and I will rouse all the ones fleeing, and the Chaldeans shall be tied in boats.
ISA 43:15 I am the LORD God, your holy one, the one introducing for Israel your king.
ISA 43:16 For thus says the LORD, the one making a way in the sea, and a path in strong water;
ISA 43:17 the one leading chariots and horse, and a mighty multitude; but they were gone to sleep, and they shall not rise up; they were extinguished as flax being extinguished.
ISA 43:18 Do not remember the first things, and the ancient things do not reckon together!
ISA 43:19 Behold, I do new things which now shall arise, and you shall know them. And I will make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the waterless place.
ISA 43:20 The wild beasts of the field shall bless me, sirens and daughters of ostriches; for I established water in the wilderness, and rivers in the waterless place, to give to drink, my chosen race,
ISA 43:21 my people whom I procured; the ones to describe my virtues.
ISA 43:22 Not now I called you, O Jacob, nor acted to tire you, O Israel.
ISA 43:23 You brought not to me of your sheep of your whole offering; nor in your sacrifices you glorified me. You were not enslaved in sacrifices, nor did you weary with frankincense.
ISA 43:24 Nor have you acquired for me a sacrifice of silver; nor the fat of your sacrifices I desired. But in your sins you stood in front of me, and in your iniquities.
ISA 43:25 I am, I am he, the one wiping away your lawless deeds because of me, and your sins in no way shall I remember.
ISA 43:26 But you, remember! And let us plead together! You tell of your lawless deeds first that you should be justified!
ISA 43:27 Your fathers first sinned, and your rulers acted lawlessly against me.
ISA 43:28 And the rulers defiled my holy things; and I gave Jacob up to be destroyed, and Israel for scorning.
ISA 44:1 But now hear, O Jacob, my child; and O Israel, whom I chose!
ISA 44:2 Thus says the LORD God, the one creating you, and shaping you from the belly. You shall still be helped. Fear not, O Jacob my servant; and the one being loved, Israel, whom I chose!
ISA 44:3 For I will give water for thirst to the ones going in a waterless place. I will place my spirit upon your seed, and my blessings upon your children.
ISA 44:4 And they shall rise up as grass in the midst of water, and as willows upon water flowing by.
ISA 44:5 This one shall say, I am of God, and this one shall call himself by the name Jacob. And another shall inscribe with his hand, I am of God, and shall call himself by the name Israel.
ISA 44:6 Thus says God, the king of Israel, and the one rescuing him - the God of hosts. I am first, and I am after these things; besides me there is not a God.
ISA 44:7 Who is as I? Let him stand, and call, and announce, and prepare for me from which time I made man into the eon! And the things coming before their coming to pass, let them announce to you!
ISA 44:8 Do not cover yourselves up, nor wander! Have you not from the beginning given ear, and I reported it to you? You are witnesses if there is a God besides me.
ISA 44:9 And they were not hearkening then, the ones shaping and carving all the vain idols, doing their wishes which do not benefit them. But they are their own witnesses. They shall not see, and they shall not know, that they should be ashamed - he who shapes mighty, and a carved molten casting for unprofitable things. Behold, all the ones partaking with him shall be ashamed -
ISA 44:10 the ones shaping a god, and all the ones carving unprofitable things.
ISA 44:11 And all from where they came from were dried up. Yes, let all the deaf-mutes of men be brought together, and let them stand together, and let them feel remorse, and let them be ashamed together!
ISA 44:12 For the fabricator sharpens the iron tool, and with a hammer he works it in coals, and with a drill he sets it, and works it with the arm of his strength. And he shall hunger and be weak, and in no way shall he drink water.
ISA 44:13 The fabricator having chosen a piece of wood sets it with a measure, and forms it with a scraper. He made it with a carpenter's square, and with glue he composes it. And he made it as the appearance of a man. And as a thing of beauty of man he sets it in a niche.
ISA 44:14 And in which he fells cedars for himself, then he takes the holm oak and the oak; and he strengthened for himself the tree from the grove which the LORD planted - a pine; and the rain lengthened it,
ISA 44:15 that it might be for men to burn. And taking of it he warms himself, and in burning they bake breads upon it; and with the remaining he works out gods, and does obeisance to them. He made it a carved idol, and he bends to them;
ISA 44:16 of which the half of it he incinerates in fire, and upon the half of it he ate meat - roasting he roasted a roast, and was filled up. And heating himself he said, It is agreeable to me, for I was heated, and I beheld a fire.
ISA 44:17 And the rest he makes into a carved god. He bends to it, and does obeisance, and prays to it, saying, Deliver me, for your are my god!
ISA 44:18 They do not know to think, for they were blurred to see with their eyes, and to comprehend with their heart.
ISA 44:19 And he considered not in his soul, nor knew by the intellect that the half of it he incinerated by fire, and baked breads upon its coals, and ate roasting meat; and that the rest of it he made into an abomination, and they do obeisance to it.
ISA 44:20 Know that their heart is ashes, and they err, and no one is able to rescue his soul! Behold! Shall you not say that, A lie is in my right hand?
ISA 44:21 Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel! For you are my servant; I shaped you to be my servant. And you, O Israel, do not forget me!
ISA 44:22 Behold, I wiped away your lawless deeds as a cloud, and your sin as dimness. Turn to me, and I shall ransom you!
ISA 44:23 Be glad, O heavens! For the God of Israel showed mercy. Trump, O foundations of the earth! Yell out, O mountains in gladness, O hills, and all the trees in them! For the LORD ransomed Jacob, and Israel shall be glorified.
ISA 44:24 Thus says the LORD, the one ransoming you, and the one shaping you from the belly, I am the LORD, the one completing all things. I stretched out the heaven alone, and solidified the earth.
ISA 44:25 Who other shall efface the signs of the ones who deliver oracles, and divinations from the heart; turning the intelligent ones unto the rear, and their counsel as being moronish;
ISA 44:26 and establishing the discourse of his servant, and verifying the counsel of his messengers. The one saying to Jerusalem, You shall be inhabited; and to the cities of Judea, You shall be built, and her desolate places I shall raise up.
ISA 44:27 The one saying to the deep, You shall be made desolate, and I will dry up your rivers.
ISA 44:28 The one telling Cyrus, Think, and all my wants he will do. The one saying to Jerusalem, You shall be built, and I shall lay the foundation of my holy house.
ISA 45:1 Thus says the LORD God to my anointed, Cyrus, whose right hand I held, for nations to heed before him; and the strength of kings I will tear up; I will open doors before him, and gates shall not be closed up.
ISA 45:2 I will go before you, and shall level mountains. I shall break the doors of brass, and shall break in pieces bars of iron.
ISA 45:3 And I shall give to you treasures - obscure, concealed, unseen. I will open to you that you should know that I am the LORD your God, the one calling your name, the God of Israel.
ISA 45:4 Because of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen, I shall call you by your name, and favorably receive you - but you did not know me.
ISA 45:5 For I am the LORD God, and there is not yet besides me - there is not a god. I strengthened you, and you knew me not;
ISA 45:6 that the ones from the east sun and the ones from the west should know that there is not one besides me. I am the LORD God, and there is not any more.
ISA 45:7 I am the one carefully preparing light, and I made darkness - the one making peace, and the one creating bad things. I am the LORD God doing all these things.
ISA 45:8 Let the heaven above be glad, and let the clouds sprinkle righteousness! Let the earth arise, and burst forth mercy! And let righteousness burst forth together! I am the LORD, the one creating you.
ISA 45:9 What made better mortar of a potter? Will the one plowing plow the earth the entire day? Will the mortar say to the potter, What do you do that you work not, nor have hands?
ISA 45:10 Woe the one saying to the father, Why shall you engender? and to the mother, Why shall you travail?
ISA 45:11 For thus says the LORD God, the holy one of Israel, the one making the coming things, Ask me concerning my sons, and concerning the works of my hands - shall you give charge to me!
ISA 45:12 I made the earth, and man upon it. I solidified the heaven by my hand. I gave charge to all the stars.
ISA 45:13 I raised him with righteousness as king, and all his ways are straight. This one shall build my city, and the captivity of my people he shall return - not by ransoms, nor by gifts, said the LORD of hosts.
ISA 45:14 Thus says the LORD of hosts, Egypt tired for you, and the trade of the Ethiopians and the Sabeans, haughty men shall pass over you, and will be your servants, and shall follow after you being tied in manacles, and shall pass over to you, and shall do obeisance to you, and shall pray to you, for God is among you, and there is not a God besides you.
ISA 45:15 For you are God, and we knew not - God of Israel, the deliverer.
ISA 45:16 All the ones being an adversary to him shall be ashamed and shall feel remorse; and they shall go in shame. Be dedicated to me, O islands.
ISA 45:17 Israel is delivered by the LORD with an eternal deliverance; they shall not be ashamed, nor should they feel remorse unto the eon still.
ISA 45:18 For thus says the LORD, the one making the heaven, this God, the one introducing the earth and making it; he separated it, he did not make it empty, but he shaped it to dwell in; I am the LORD, and there is not yet.
ISA 45:19 I have not spoken in secret, nor in a place of the earth that is dark. I told not to the seed of Jacob, Seek a vain thing! I am the LORD, the one speaking righteousness, and announcing truth.
ISA 45:20 Gather together and come! Consult together, O ones being delivered from the nations! the ones lifting their wood carving knew not, and the ones praying to a god which does not deliver.
ISA 45:21 The ones they shall announce. Let them approach that they should know together who audibly did these things! From the beginning from then it was announced to you. Am I not the LORD God? There is not another besides me - a just one and a deliverer. There is not one besides me.
ISA 45:22 Turn unto me, and you shall be delivered, O ones from the end of the earth! I am God, and there is not another.
ISA 45:23 According to myself I swear by an oath. Shall not righteousness scome forth from out of my mouth; my words shall not be perverted. For every knee shall bend to me, and every tongue shall swear by an oath by God,
ISA 45:24 saying, Righteousness and glory shall come to him; and all the ones of them being separated from the LORD shall be ashamed.
ISA 45:25 They shall be justified, and in God All the seed of the sons of Israel shall be glorified.
ISA 46:1 Bel fell, Dagon was broken, their carved images became for the wild beasts; and cattle lift them being bound for a load, tiring, fainting,
ISA 46:2 and hungering, not being able together; the ones who are not able to be delivered from war; but they themselves are led away as captives.
ISA 46:3 Hear me, O house of Jacob, and all the rest of Israel, O ones being lifted from the belly, and being corrected from childhood
ISA 46:4 until old age! I am, and until whenever you should become aged, I am. I endure you. I made, and I shall spare. I shall take up, and I shall deliver you.
ISA 46:5 To whom do you liken me? Behold, the misleading ones cunningly contrive!
ISA 46:6 And the ones uniting in gold from a money bag, and silver in a yoke balance scale shall establish by weight; and ones hiring a goldsmith made handmade idols; and bowing they do obeisance to it.
ISA 46:7 They lift it upon the shoulder, and they go. And if they put it upon its place, it remains. In no way shall it move, and who ever should yell to it, in no way shall it listen; in no way shall it deliver him from hurt.
ISA 46:8 Remember these things, and moan! Change your mind, O ones being misled! Turn in the heart!
ISA 46:9 Remember the things prior from the eon! For I am God, and there is not another besides me;
ISA 46:10 announcing formerly the last things before their taking place, and are completed. And I said, All my counsel will stand, and all as much as I have planned I will do;
ISA 46:11 calling the winged creature from the east, and from a land at a distance, for the things which I have planned. And indeed I spoke, and indeed I led. I created, and I did. I led him, and I prospered his way.
ISA 46:12 Hear me, O ones destroying the heart! O ones far from righteousness.
ISA 46:13 my righteousness is near - no way at a distance; and the deliverance by me I will not be slow about. I have appointed in Zion deliverance to Israel for glory.
ISA 47:1 Go down, sit upon the ground, O virgin daughter of Babylon - sit on the ground! There is not a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans. For no longer shall you be added to be called tender and delicate.
ISA 47:2 Take a millstone! Grind flour! Uncover your face covering! Expose the gray hairs! Uncover the shanks! Be passed over the rivers!
ISA 47:3 Your shame shall be uncovered; your scornings shall be shone forth; I will take the just one from you; no longer shall I deliver up to men.
ISA 47:4 The one rescuing you - the LORD of hosts is his name, the holy one of Israel.
ISA 47:5 Sit being vexed! Enter into the darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans! No longer should you be called, the strength of a kingdom.
ISA 47:6 I was provoked by my people. You defiled my inheritance. I gave them into your hand, but you did not grant mercy to them. You oppressed the old man by the yoke exceedingly.
ISA 47:7 And you said, I will be ruling into the eon. You comprehended not these things in your heart, nor remembered the latter end.
ISA 47:8 But now, hear these things, O delicate one! the one sitting down, the one yielding, the one saying in her heart, I am, and there is not another; I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know bereavement.
ISA 47:9 But now these two things shall come upon you suddenly in one day - childlessness and widowhood. It shall come suddenly upon you in your sorcery, in the strength of your enchantments - exceedingly;
ISA 47:10 in the hope of your wickedness. For you said, I am, and there is not another. Know that the understanding of these things, and your harlotry will be shame to you! And you said in your heart, I am, and there is not another.
ISA 47:11 And destruction shall come upon you. And in no way shall you know a cesspool is there, and you shall fall into it. And misery shall come upon you, and in no way shall you be able to be clean. And destruction shall come upon you suddenly, and in no way shall you know.
ISA 47:12 Stand now with your enchantments, and in the abundance of your sorcery, which you learned from your youth - if you shall be able to derive benefit!
ISA 47:13 You are tired in your counsels. Let the astrologers of the heaven stand indeed and deliver you! Let the ones seeing the stars announce to you what is about to come upon you!
ISA 47:14 Behold, all are as sticks upon a fire, they shall be incinerated; and in no way shall they rescue their soul from out of the flame. For you shall have coals of fire to sit by them;
ISA 47:15 these shall be your help. You tired in the revolt from your youth. A man wanders by himself, but to you there will not be deliverance.
ISA 48:1 Hear these things, O house of Jacob, the ones being called by the name Israel, and coming forth from waters of Judah; the ones swearing by an oath to the name of the LORD God of Israel; ones remembering not with truth, nor with righteousness,
ISA 48:2 and ones holding to the name of the holy city, and taking support upon the God of Israel! The LORD of hosts is his name.
ISA 48:3 The former things again I announced, and from out of my mouth it came forth, and audibly it happened. Suddenly I did, and it came about.
ISA 48:4 I know that you are hardened, and your neck is a nerve of iron, and your forehead is as brass.
ISA 48:5 And I announced to you earlier what whould happen before it came upon you. Audibly to you I did it, lest at some time or other you should say that, My idols did. And you should say that, The carvings and the molten images gave charge to me!
ISA 48:6 You heard all, and you knew not. But even audibly I committed to you the new things from the present, which are about to take place, and you spoke not.
ISA 48:7 Now it takes place, and not earlier; and not in former days, and you heard them not. Lest you should say, Yes, I know them.
ISA 48:8 Neither you knew, nor were knowing of, nor from the beginning when I opened your ears; for I knew that in disregarding you shall disregard, and you would be called lawless even from out of the belly.
ISA 48:9 Because of my name I will show to you my rage, and I will bring my noble deeds upon you, that I should not utterly destroy you.
ISA 48:10 Behold, I have bartered you, not for silver. But I rescued you from out of the furnace of poorness.
ISA 48:11 Because of myself, I will do, for my name is being profaned; and I will not give my glory to another.
ISA 48:12 Hear me, O Jacob, and Israel whom I call! I am first, and I am into the eon.
ISA 48:13 And my hand laid the foundation for the earth, and my right hand solidified the heaven. I will call them, and they shall stand together.
ISA 48:14 And all shall be brought together, and shall hear. Who announced to them these things? In loving you, I did your will against Babylon, to lift away the seed of the Chaldeans.
ISA 48:15 I spoke, and I called. I brought him, and I prospered his way.
ISA 48:16 Lead forward to me, and hear these things! I have not spoken from the beginning in secret. When it took place, I was there. And now the Lord, the LORD, he sent me, and his spirit.
ISA 48:17 Thus says the LORD, the one rescuing you, the holy one of Israel; I am the LORD your God. I have shown to you how to find the way in which you shall go by it.
ISA 48:18 And if you hearkened to my commandments, your peace would have been as a river, and your righteousness as a wave of the sea;
ISA 48:19 and your seed would have become even as sand, and the progeny of your belly as dust of the earth; nor now in any way shall you be utterly destroyed, nor shall your name be destroyed before me.
ISA 48:20 Come forth from out of Babylon, O one fleeing from the Chaldeans! With a voice of gladness announce it, and audibly let this be made known! Report unto the end of the earth! You say, The LORD rescued his servant Jacob!
ISA 48:21 And if they should thirst, he will lead them through the wilderness; he shall bring forth water from the rock to them; the rock shall be split and shall flow water, and my people shall drink.
ISA 48:22 There is not a rejoicing, says the LORD, to the impious ones.
ISA 49:1 Hear, O islands! and take heed, O nations! Through a long time it shall be established, says the LORD. From out of the belly of my mother he called my name.
ISA 49:2 And he made my mouth as a sharp sword; and under the protection of his hand he hid me. He made me as a chosen arrow; and in his quiver he hid me.
ISA 49:3 And he said to me, You are my servant, O Israel, and in you I shall be glorified.
ISA 49:4 And I said, Uselessly I tired in vain, and for nothing I gave my strength. On account of this my judgment is from the LORD, and my toil before my God.
ISA 49:5 And now, thus says the LORD, the one shaping me from out of the belly, to be his own servant, to gather Jacob to him, Even Israel I shall have gathered, and I shall be glorified before the LORD, and my God will be my strength.
ISA 49:6 And he said, It is a great thing for you to be called my servant; to establish the tribes of Jacob, and to return the dispersion of Israel. Behold, I have given you for a covenant of a race, for a light of nations, for you to be for deliverance unto the end of the earth.
ISA 49:7 Thus says the LORD, the one rescuing you, the God of Israel, Sanctify the one treating his life as worthless; the one being abhorred by the nations of the servant of the rulers. Kings shall see him, and rulers shall rise up and shall do obeisance to him because of the LORD; for the holy one of Israel is trustworthy, and I chose you.
ISA 49:8 Thus says the LORD, In the accepted time I heeded you, and in the day of deliverance I helped you, and I shaped you, and I gave you for a covenant of nations, to establish the earth, and to inherit desolate inheritances.
ISA 49:9 Saying to the ones in bonds, Come forth! And saying to the ones in the darkness, Be uncovered! In all the ways they shall be grazing, even in all the roads of their pasture.
ISA 49:10 They shall not hunger nor thirst, nor shall a burning wind strike them, nor sun. But the one who shows mercy on them shall comfort them, and by springs of waters he shall lead them.
ISA 49:11 And I will establish every mountain for a way, and every road for a pasture to them.
ISA 49:12 Behold, these shall come from a distance; these from north, and west, and others from out of the land of the Persians.
ISA 49:13 Be glad, O heavens! and exult, O earth! Break asunder, O mountains, with gladness! For God showed mercy on his people; and the humble of his people he comforted.
ISA 49:14 Zion said, The LORD abandoned me, and, My Lord forgot.
ISA 49:15 Shall a woman forget her child, or to not show mercy on the progeny of her belly? But even if a woman might forget these things, I will not forget you, says the LORD.
ISA 49:16 Behold, upon my hands I portrayed your walls; and you are always before me.
ISA 49:17 And quickly you shall be built by whom you were demolished; and the ones making you desolate shall go forth from out of you.
ISA 49:18 Lift up round about your eyes, and perceive all! Behold, they were brought together, and they come to you. As I live, says the LORD, that, You shall clothe yourself with them all as an ornament, and you shall put them on as an ornament of a bride.
ISA 49:19 For your desolate places, and the places utterly destroyed, and the places having fallen down - that now they shall be confining, because of the ones dwelling; and the ones swallowing you down will be far from you.
ISA 49:20 For your sons whom you have lost shall say in your ears, The place is too narrow for me - make for me a place that I shall dwell!
ISA 49:21 And you shall say in your heart, Who engendered to me these? For I am childless and a widow, a sojourner and excluded. But these, who nourished for me? For I was left alone. But these, from where were these to me?
ISA 49:22 Thus says the Lord, the LORD, Behold, I lift my hand unto the nations; and unto the islands I shall lift my agreed upon sign. And they shall lead your sons in the bosom; and they shall lift your daughters upon shoulders.
ISA 49:23 And kings shall be your wet-nurses, and their ruling women your nurses. They shall do obeisance to you upon the face of the earth, and the dust of your feet they shall lick. And you shall know that I am the LORD, and the ones waiting for me shall not be ashamed.
ISA 49:24 Will anyone take spoils from a giant? and if anyone should be captured unjustly, shall he be delivered?
ISA 49:25 For thus says the LORD, If any should capture a giant, he shall take the spoils. And the one taking from the one being strong, shall be delivered. But I will plead your case, and I will rescue your sons.
ISA 49:26 And the ones afflicting you shall eat their own flesh; and shall drink their own blood as new wine, and shall be intoxicated. And all flesh shall perceive that I am the LORD, the one rescuing you, and assisting the strength of Jacob.
ISA 50:1 Thus says the LORD, Of what kind is this scroll of the certificate of divorce of your mother, by which I sent her away? Or to which debtor, of the ones exacting me, have I sold you to him? Behold, for your sins you were sold; and for your lawless deeds I sent away your mother.
ISA 50:2 Why is it that I came, and there was not a man? I called and there was not one hearkening. Is not my hand strong to rescue? Or am I not able to rescue? Behold, by my rebuke I shall make the sea quite desolate, and I shall make rivers desolate; and their fishes shall be dried up from there not being water; and they shall die for thirst.
ISA 50:3 I shall clothe the heaven with darkness, and I shall make its wrap-around garment as sackcloth.
ISA 50:4 The Lord, the LORD gives to me a tongue of instruction, to know when it is necessary to speak a word. He stood me morning by morning. He added an ear for me to hear.
ISA 50:5 And the instruction of the LORD opens my ears, and I do not resist persuasion, nor do I dispute.
ISA 50:6 My back I have given to whips, and my jaws for slaps, and my face I turned not from the shame of ones spitting.
ISA 50:7 And the Lord, the LORD was a helper to me. On account of this I was not ashamed; but I set my face as a solid rock; and I knew that in no way should I be ashamed.
ISA 50:8 For the one justifying me approaches. Who is the one judging me? Let him oppose me at the same time! Yes, who is the one judging me? Let him approach to me!
ISA 50:9 Behold, the LORD shall help me. Who shall inflict evil on me? Behold, you all shall become old as a cloak, and as a moth you shall be devoured.
ISA 50:10 Who among you is the one fearing the LORD? Let him obey the voice of his servant! Let the ones going in darkness, and there is not light to them, yield upon the name of the LORD, and support yourselves upon God!
ISA 50:11 Behold, you all kindle a fire, and you strengthen the flame; you go to the light of your fire, and the flame which you kindled. On account of me these things came to pass to you; you shall remain the night in distress.
ISA 51:1 Hearken to me, O ones pursuing the just thing, and seeking the LORD! Look unto the solid rock which you quarried, and into the pit of the well which you dug!
ISA 51:2 Look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah the one travailing with you! For he was one person, and I called him, and blessed him, and loved him, and multiplied him.
ISA 51:3 And now I will comfort you, O Zion. And I comforted all her desolate places; and I will make her desolate places as a park; and her western places as a park of the LORD. They shall find gladness and a leap for joy in her - acknowledgment and a voice of praise.
ISA 51:4 Hear me! Hear me, O my people! And O kings, give ear to me! For a law shall go forth from me, and my judgment for a light of nations.
ISA 51:5 My righteousness approaches quickly, and my deliverance shall go forth as light, and on my arm they shall hope. Islands shall wait for me, and on my arm they shall hope.
ISA 51:6 Lift up your eyes unto the heaven, and look unto the earth below! For the heaven is as smoke having been solidified, and the earth as a cloak shall be old. And the ones inhabiting shall die as these. But the deliverance of mine shall be into the eon, and the righteousness of mine in no way shall fail.
ISA 51:7 Hear me, O ones knowing equity - a people of whom my law is in their heart! Do not fear the scorning of men, and let their disparagement not vanquish you!
ISA 51:8 For as a garment that shall be eaten upon time, and as wool shall be eaten by a moth; but the righteousness of mine will be into the eon, and the deliverance of mine for generations of generations.
ISA 51:9 Awaken! Awaken, O Jerusalem, and put on the strength of your arm! Awaken as in the beginning of days, as a generation of an eon! Are not you the one being quarried in width, being torn up by a dragon?
ISA 51:10 Are you not the one making desolate the sea, the abundance of the deep water, the one having put the depths of the sea a way of a ford to the ones being rescued?
ISA 51:11 And the ones being ransomed - for by the LORD they shall be returned, and shall come unto Zion with gladness, and an everlasting leap for joy. For upon their head praise and gladness shall overtake them; grief and distress and moaning ran away.
ISA 51:12 I am, I am he, the one comforting you. Know who is being, that you should be fearful from mortal man, and from a son of man - the ones who as grass were dried up!
ISA 51:13 And you forgot God, the one making you, the one making the heaven, and laying the foundation for the earth. And fear continually all the days in front of the rage of the one afflicting you, in which manner he planned to carry you away! And now where is the rage of the one afflicting you?
ISA 51:14 For in your being delivered - he shall not stop nor pass time, and he shall not kill for hurt, and in no way shall he lack his bread.
ISA 51:15 For I am your God, the one disturbing the sea, and resounding its waves. The LORD of hosts is my name.
ISA 51:16 I will put my words into your mouth, and under the shadow of my hand I will shelter you, in which I established the heaven, and founded the earth. And he shall say to Zion, You are my people.
ISA 51:17 Awaken! Awaken! Rise up, O Jerusalem, the one drinking from the hand of the LORD the cup of his rage! For the cup of the blow, the drinking cup of rage, you drank and emptied out.
ISA 51:18 And there was not the one comforting you from all of your children whom you gave birth. And there was not the one taking hold of your hand, nor from all of your sons whom you raised.
ISA 51:19 Therefore these things are adverse to you. Who will grieve with you? A calamitous downfall, and defeat, hunger, and sword. Who will comfort you?
ISA 51:20 Your sons are the ones being perplexed, sleeping upon the top of all the streets, as a half-boiled beet full of the rage of the LORD, fainting from the LORD God.
ISA 51:21 On account of this, hear, O one being humbled, and O one being intoxicated not from wine!
ISA 51:22 Thus says the LORD God, the one judging his people, Behold, I took from out of your hand the cup of the blow, the drinking cup of my rage; and you shall not proceed to drink it any longer.
ISA 51:23 And I give it into the hand of the ones wronging you, and of the ones humbling you; which said to your soul, Bow, that we should go by! And you put the things in your midst equal to the ground outside to the ones coming near.
ISA 52:1 Awaken! Awaken, O Zion! Put on your strength, O Zion! And you, put on your glory, O Jerusalem, the holy city! No longer shall there proceed to go through you uncircumcised and unclean.
ISA 52:2 Shake off the dust and rise up! Sit, O Jerusalem! Take off the bond from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion!
ISA 52:3 For thus says the LORD, You were sold without charge, and you shall not be ransomed with silver.
ISA 52:4 For thus says the Lord, the LORD. To Egypt My people went down formerly to sojourn there, and were led into Assyria by force.
ISA 52:5 And now, why shall you be here? Thus says the LORD, Because my people were taken without charge - wonder and shriek! Thus says the LORD, On account of you, my name always is being blasphemed among the nations.
ISA 52:6 On account of this, my people shall know my name. On account of this in that day, (for I am he, the one speaking am at hand;
ISA 52:7 as an hour upon the mountains, as feet announcing good news, the hearing of peace; as of announcing good news - good things;) that audibly I will produce your deliverance, saying, Zion, Your God shall reign.
ISA 52:8 The voice of the ones guarding you is exalted, and with the voice together they shall be glad. For eyes to eyes shall see when ever the LORD should show mercy on Zion.
ISA 52:9 Let the desolate places of Jerusalem break asunder with gladness together! for the LORD showed mercy on her, and rescued Jerusalem.
ISA 52:10 And the LORD shall uncover his holy arm in the presence of all the nations. And all the uttermost parts of the earth shall see the deliverance by our God.
ISA 52:11 Leave! Leave! Go forth from there, and the unclean thing do not touch! Go forth from out of the midst of it! Separate yourselves, O ones bearing the vessels of the LORD!
ISA 52:12 For you shall not come forth with disturbance, nor shall you go forth in flight into exile. For the LORD shall go before prior of you; and the one assembling you is the God of Israel.
ISA 52:13 Behold, my servant shall perceive, and shall be exalted, and shall be glorified, and shall be raised up on high exceedingly.
ISA 52:14 In which manner many shall be amazed by you, so the sight of your appearance shall be despised by men, and your glory by the sons of men.
ISA 52:15 Thus many nations shall wonder over him; and kings shall hold their mouth. For ones to whom it was not announced concerning him shall see; and the ones who heard not shall perceive.
ISA 53:1 O LORD, who believed in our report? and the arm of the LORD, to whom was it uncovered?
ISA 53:2 We announced as of a male child before him, as a root in a land thirsting. There is not an appearance to him, nor glory; and we beheld him, and he has not appearance nor beauty.
ISA 53:3 But his appearance was without honor, and wanting by sons of men. A man being for calamity, and knowing how to bear infirmity. For he turned his face; he was dishonored, and not considered.
ISA 53:4 This one bore our sins, and on account of us he was grieved. And we considered him to be for misery, and for calamity by God, and for ill treatment.
ISA 53:5 But he was wounded because of our sins, and was made infirm on account of our lawless deeds. The discipline chastisement. for our peace was upon him; by his stripe we were healed.
ISA 53:6 We were all wandered as sheep. A man in his way was wandered, and the LORD delivered him up for our sins.
ISA 53:7 And he on account of being inflicted by evil, opened not his mouth. He was led as a sheep unto slaughter. And as a lamb before the one shearing is voiceless, so he opened not his mouth.
ISA 53:8 In the humiliation, in his equity, he was lifted away. Who shall describe his generation? for his life was lifted away from the earth. Because of the lawless deeds of my people he was led unto death.
ISA 53:9 And I shall give the wicked for his burial, and the rich for his death. For he did not commit lawlessness, nor was treachery in his mouth.
ISA 53:10 And the LORD willed to cleanse him of the beating. If you should offer for a sin offering the thing for your life, he shall see a long-lived seed.
ISA 53:11 And the LORD willed by his hand to remove misery of his soul, to show to him light, and to shape in the understanding; to justify a just one, a good one serving many - and he shall bear their sins.
ISA 53:12 On account of this he shall inherit many, and of the strong ones he will portion out spoils; because his soul was delivered up unto death; and he was considered among the lawless ones; and he himself bore the sins of many, and because of their lawless deeds he was delivered up.
ISA 54:1 Be glad, O sterile one, the one not giving birth! Break forth and yell, O one not travailing! For many are the children of the barren, rather than the one having the husband. For thus spoke the LORD.
ISA 54:2 Widen the place of your tent, and pitch the hide coverings of your curtains! You should spare not. Distance out your measured lands, and strengthen your tent pegs!
ISA 54:3 Spread forth yet unto the right and the left! for your seed shall inherit nations, and you shall dwell in cities having been made desolate.
ISA 54:4 You should not fear that you were disgraced, nor should you feel ashamed that you were berated. For you shall forget everlasting shame; and the scorn of your widowhood in no way shall you remember any longer.
ISA 54:5 For the LORD, the one making you, the LORD of hosts is his name; and the one rescuing you, he is the God of Israel. He shall be called God of all the earth.
ISA 54:6 Not as a forsaken and faint-hearted woman has the LORD called you; nor as a woman being detested from youth, said your God.
ISA 54:7 A little time I left you behind; and with great mercy I will show mercy on you.
ISA 54:8 In a little rage I turned my face from you; and in eternal mercy I will show mercy on you, said the one rescuing you - the LORD.
ISA 54:9 From the water of the one upon Noah, this is my plan, in so far as I swore by an oath to him in that time to the earth, to not be enraged against you any longer; nor by your intimidation.
ISA 54:10 Shall the mountains change over, and neither your hills shall be moved about; so not even mercy shown by me to you shall fail, and neither the covenant for your peace in any way shall change; for the LORD spoke kindness to you.
ISA 54:11 Humble and confused, you were not comforted. Behold, I prepare for you carbuncle for your stone, and for your foundations sapphire.
ISA 54:12 And I will make the parapets jasper, and your gates stones of crystal, and your enclosure of choice stones;
ISA 54:13 and all your sons instructed of God, and much peace to your children.
ISA 54:14 And you shall be built in righteousness, at a distance from the unjust. And you shall not be fearful, and trembling shall not approach to you.
ISA 54:15 Behold, converts shall come forward to you because of me, and they shall sojourn with you, and unto you they shall take refuge.
ISA 54:16 Behold, I created you, not as a brazier blowing in a fire of coals and bringing forth a utensil for work; but I created you, not for destruction to corrupt.
ISA 54:17 Every weapon concocted against you shall not be prosperous; and every voice that shall rise up against you for judgment - all of them you shall vanquish. And the ones liable of you shall be in her; it is the inheritance to the ones attending the LORD, and you shall be just ones to me, says the LORD.
ISA 55:1 Woe the ones thirsting. Go unto water! And as many as do not have money, proceeding, buy and eat! And go, and buy without money - even valuable wine and fatling!
ISA 55:2 What do you value for money not in breads, and your effort not unto fullness? Hearken to me, and you shall eat good things, and shall revel in good things to your soul!
ISA 55:3 Take heed with your ears, and follow after my ways! Listen to me, and you shall live with good things for your soul! And I shall ordain with you an eternal covenant - the sacred things of David, the trustworthy ones.
ISA 55:4 Behold, I made him a testimony to nations, a ruler and one assigning to nations.
ISA 55:5 Behold, nations which do not know you - they shall call upon you; and peoples which have not a knowledge of you - they shall take refuge upon you, because of the LORD your God, even the holy one of Israel - for he glorified you.
ISA 55:6 Seek the LORD! And in the finding call upon him whenever he should approach to you!
ISA 55:7 Let the impious one leave his ways, and the lawless man his plans! And let him return unto the LORD! And he shall be shown mercy, even from our God, for he will forgive your sins unto much.
ISA 55:8 For my plans are not as your plans; nor as your ways are my ways, says the LORD.
ISA 55:9 But as the distance the heaven is from the earth, so my way is at a distance from your ways, and your considerations from my mind.
ISA 55:10 For as whenever the rain or snow should come down from heaven, and in no way shall it return until whenever it should saturate the earth, and the earth should bring forth, and should sprout forth, and should give seed to the one sowing, and bread for food;
ISA 55:11 so shall it be with my word, which ever shall come forth from out of my mouth - in no way shall it return to me empty, until whenever it should finish as much as I wanted; and I will prosper your ways and my precepts.
ISA 55:12 For with gladness you shall go forth, and in joy you shall be led. For the mountains and the hills shall leap out favorably receiving you in joy, and all the trees of the field shall clap with their tender branches.
ISA 55:13 And instead of a pile, the cypress shall ascend. And instead of the briar the myrtle shall ascend. And the LORD will be for a name, and for an eternal sign, and it shall not cease.
ISA 56:1 Thus says the LORD, Guard equity, and do righteousness, for my deliverance is near to come, and my mercy to be uncovered!
ISA 56:2 Blessed is the man doing these things, and the man holding to them, and guarding the sabbaths, so as to not profane them, and observing his hands, so as to not do unjustly.
ISA 56:3 Let not the foreigner say, the one joining to the LORD! saying, By separation The LORD surely will separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say that, I am a dry tree!
ISA 56:4 For thus says the LORD to the eunuchs, As many as should keep my sabbaths, and should choose what I want, and should hold to my covenant,
ISA 56:5 I will give to them in my house, and in my wall a famous place, better than sons and daughters. I will give to them an eternal name, and it shall not cease.
ISA 56:6 And to the foreigners joining to the LORD to serve him, and to love the name of the LORD, to be to him for menservants and maidservants, and all the ones keeping my sabbaths, to not profane, and ones holding to my covenant,
ISA 56:7 I will bring them unto my holy mountain, and will gladden them in my house of prayer. Their whole-burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted upon my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations,
ISA 56:8 said the LORD, the one gathering the ones having been dispersed of Israel. For I will gather unto him a congregation.
ISA 56:9 All wild beasts, come! Let all the wild beasts of the forest eat!
ISA 56:10 See how they all have been blinded - they knew not! All are dumb dogs, they shall not be able to bark; ones dreaming of a bed, being fond of slumber.
ISA 56:11 Yes, the impudent dogs not knowing fullness in the soul; and they are wicked, not knowing understanding; all followed after their own ways; each according to his own advantage from his uttermost, saying,
ISA 56:12 Come we should take wine and be drunk with wine to intoxication, and tomorrow shall be such as this day - great, rather exceedingly.
ISA 57:1 Behold how the just one perishes! and no one looks out for the heart. And just men are lifted away, and no one contemplates. For from the face of injustice the just one has been lifted away.
ISA 57:2 His burial will be in peace; he has been lifted from out of the midst.
ISA 57:3 But you lead forward here, O lawless sons, seed of adulterers, and of a harlot!
ISA 57:4 In what have you reveled in? and against whom have you opened your mouth? and against whom have you slackened your tongue? are you not children of destruction? a seed without honor?
ISA 57:5 the ones calling for aid upon the idols under bushy trees? ones slaying their children in the ravines between the rocks?
ISA 57:6 That is your portion, this is your lot. To those you poured out libations, and to these you offered sacrifices. Over these things then shall I not be provoked to anger?
ISA 57:7 Upon the high and elevated mountain, there is your bed, and there you hauled to sacrifice your sacrifices.
ISA 57:8 And behind the doorposts of your door you placed your memorials. Did you think that if you should separate from me you would have anything more. You loved the ones going to bed with you;
ISA 57:9 and you multiplied your harlotry with them; and you made many of them far from you. And you sent ambassadors over your borders; and you were abased unto Hades.
ISA 57:10 You tired in your many ways, yet you said not, I shall cease growing in strength. For you practiced these things. On account of this you did not earnestly beseech of me.
ISA 57:11 In venerating, whom were you afraid of, that you lied against me, and did not remember me, nor took me into your consideration, nor into your heart? And I beholding you will overlook; yet you did not fear me.
ISA 57:12 And I will report - your righteousness, and your evils shall not benefit you.
ISA 57:13 Whenever you should yell out, then let them rescue you in your affliction! For all these things the wind shall take, and the gale shall carry away. But the ones holding on in me shall acquire the earth, and they shall inherit my holy mountain.
ISA 57:14 And they shall say, Clear the ways from in front of him; and lift the impediments from the way of my people!
ISA 57:15 Thus says the highest, the one in the highest, dwelling the eon; holy in the holies; the name to him - the LORD; the one resting highest in the holies; and to the faint-hearted giving long-suffering, and giving life to the ones being broken in heart.
ISA 57:16 I shall not punish you into the eon, nor shall I be provoked to anger with you always; for a spirit from me shall go forth, and I made all breath.
ISA 57:17 On account of sin a little in anything I grieved him, and I struck him, and I turned my face from him; and I was grieved, and he went gloomy in his ways.
ISA 57:18 I have seen his ways, and I healed him, and comforted him, and gave to him true comfort.
ISA 57:19 Peace upon peace to the ones far off, and to the ones being near. And the LORD said, I will heal them.
ISA 57:20 But the unjust thus shall swell as waves, and I will not be able to rest.
ISA 57:21 There is not a rejoicing to the impious ones, said God.
ISA 58:1 Yell out in strength, and you should not spare! As a trumpet, raise up high your voice, and announce to my people their sins, and to the house of Jacob their lawless deeds!
ISA 58:2 They seek me day by day, and they desire to know my ways, as a people executing righteousness, and not abandoning judgment of their God. They ask me now for a just judgment, and they desire to approach to God,
ISA 58:3 saying, Why is it that we fasted, and you looked not? Why did we humble our souls, and you knew not? For in the days of your fasts you find the things of your wants, and all the ones under your hands you goad.
ISA 58:4 You fast for litigations and fights, and you beat the humble with your fists. Why do you fast to me as you do today? Is it for your voice to be heard in a cry?
ISA 58:5 I did not choose this fast, nor a day for a man to humble his soul; nor even should you bend your neck as a hook, nor should you spread under you sackcloth and ashes, nor thus shall you call an acceptable fast.
ISA 58:6 I choose not such a fast, says the LORD. But untie every bond of injustice! Part violent perverseness of exchanges! Send out by a free release the ones having been devastated, and tear apart every unjust writ!
ISA 58:7 Break your bread with ones hungering, and bring the homeless poor into your house! If you behold one naked, clothe him! And concerning the members of your family of your seed, you shall not disdain them.
ISA 58:8 Then your light shall be torn through the morning, and the things for your cures quickly shall arise; and your righteousness shall go before in front of you, and the glory of God shall screen you.
ISA 58:9 Then you shall yell, and the LORD shall hearken to you. Yet while you are speaking he shall say, Behold, I am at hand. If you remove from yourself conspiracy, and stretching forth of the hands, and grumbling discourse;
ISA 58:10 and should give to ones hungering the bread from your soul, and should fill up the soul being humble, then your light shall rise in the darkness, and your darkness shall be as midday.
ISA 58:11 And your God will be with you always, and you shall be filled up just as your soul desires. And your bones shall be fattened, and will be as a saturated garden, and as a spring which water failed not.
ISA 58:12 And the everlasting desolate places shall be built to you, and your everlasting foundations will be in generations of generations; and you shall be called a builder of barriers. And the stones in the midst of your roads shall cease.
ISA 58:13 If you should turn your foot from the sabbaths, to not do your wants on the holy day, and shall call the sabbaths delightful, holy to your God, then you shall not lift your foot to work, nor shall you speak a word in anger from out of your mouth.
ISA 58:14 Then shall you be relying upon the LORD, and he will bring the good things upon your land, and he will feed you the inheritance of Jacob your father. For the mouth of the LORD spoke these things.
ISA 59:1 Is not the hand of the LORD strong to deliver? or his ear weighed down to not listen?
ISA 59:2 But your sins make a part between you and God; and on account of your sins he turned his face from you, to not show mercy.
ISA 59:3 For your hands are tainted with blood, and your fingers with sins; and your lips spoke lawlessness, and your tongue meditated upon injustice.
ISA 59:4 No one speaks just things, nor is there true equity. They rely upon vanities, and they speak empty things; for they sire misery and give birth to lawlessness.
ISA 59:5 They hatch eggs of asps, and weave of a spider a web. And the one about to eat their eggs, breaking a rotten egg, found also in it a cobra.
ISA 59:6 Their web shall not be made into a garment, nor shall they clothe themselves from their works; for their works are works of lawlessness.
ISA 59:7 And their feet run unto wickedness, quick to pour out blood; and their thoughts are thoughts of murder. Destruction and misery are in their ways.
ISA 59:8 And the way of peace they know not, and there is not equity in their ways. For their roads which they travel through are perverted, and they know not peace.
ISA 59:9 On account of this equity left from them, and in no way shall righteousness overtake them. In their waiting light, darkness came to them; waiting for daylight, they walked in midnight.
ISA 59:10 They shall grope as blind men for a wall, and they shall grope as ones not possessing eyes. They shall fall in midday as at midnight; they shall moan as ones dying.
ISA 59:11 As a bear, and as a dove, together they shall go. We awaited judgment, and there is not a deliverance; it is removed far from us.
ISA 59:12 For our lawlessness is great before you, and our sins withstood us. For our lawless deeds are in us, and our offences we knew.
ISA 59:13 We were impious, and lied, and departed from our God. We spoke unjustly, and we resisted persuasion. We sired, and meditated unjust words from our heart.
ISA 59:14 And we left behind equity, and righteousness removed far off. For the truth was consumed in their ways, and they were not able to go by a straight way.
ISA 59:15 And the truth was lifted away, and they changed their thought of perceiving. And the LORD beheld, and it did not please him, for there was not equity.
ISA 59:16 And he beheld, and there was not a man. And he contemplated, and there was not the one assisting. And he defended them by his arm; and with charity he supported them.
ISA 59:17 And he clothed himself with righteousness as a chest plate, and put a helmet of deliverance upon his head, and put around himself a cloak of vengeance - even a wrap-around garment,
ISA 59:18 as one recompensing a reward of scorn to the adversaries.
ISA 59:19 And the ones from the west shall fear the name of the LORD; and the ones from the east sun shall fear the honorable name. For the anger of the LORD shall come as a violent river; it shall come with rage.
ISA 59:20 And the one rescuing shall come from Zion, and shall turn impiety from Jacob.
ISA 59:21 And this covenant to them is by me, said the LORD. The spirit - mine, which is upon you, and my words which I put in your mouth, in no way shall fail from your mouth, nor from out of the mouth of your seed, said the LORD, from the present and unto the eon.
ISA 60:1 Be enlightened! Be enlightened, O Jerusalem! For your light is come, and the glory of the LORD has risen upon you.
ISA 60:2 Behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and a dimness upon nations; but the LORD shall appear upon you, and his glory shall be seen upon you.
ISA 60:3 And nations shall go by your light, and kings in your brightness.
ISA 60:4 Lift your eyes round about, and behold all your children gathering together! All your sons come from far off, and your daughters shall be carried upon shoulders.
ISA 60:5 Then you shall see, and shall be fearful, and shall be startled in the heart; for the riches of the sea shall turn unto you, and of nations, and of peoples; and they shall come to you.
ISA 60:6 Herds of camels, and camels of Midian and Ephah shall cover you; they all come from out of Sheba bringing gold and frankincense; and they shall announce as good news the deliverance of the LORD.
ISA 60:7 And all the sheep of Kedar shall be gathered together to you; and rams of Nebaioth shall come to you; and acceptable sacrifices shall be offered upon my altar; and the house of my prayer shall be glorified.
ISA 60:8 Who thus fly as clouds; even as doves with young?
ISA 60:9 Islands waited for me, and boats of Tarshish are among the first to lead your children from far off, and their silver and gold is with them, on account of the holy name of the LORD, and on account of the holy one of Israel to be glorious.
ISA 60:10 And foreigners shall build your walls, and their kings shall stand beside you. For on account of my anger I struck you, and on account of mercy I loved you.
ISA 60:11 And your gates shall be open continually; day and night they shall not be locked; to bring in to you the force of nations, and their kings leading.
ISA 60:12 For the nations and the kings which will not serve to you shall perish; and the nations shall be made desolate unto desolation.
ISA 60:13 And the glory of Lebanon shall come to you with cypress, and pine, and cedar together, to glorify my holy place - and the place of their feet I will glorify.
ISA 60:14 And they shall go to you being in awe - sons of the ones humbling you. And all the ones who provoked you shall do obeisance at the soles of your feet. And you shall be called, City of the LORD, Zion of Holy Israel.
ISA 60:15 Because you became abandoned and detested, and there was not one helping, even I will make you an everlasting leap for joy, a gladness to generations of generations.
ISA 60:16 And you shall nurse milk of nations, and you shall eat wealth of kings. And you shall know that I am the LORD, the one delivering you, and rescuing you - the God of Jacob.
ISA 60:17 And instead of brass, I shall bring to you gold; and instead of iron, I shall bring to you silver; and instead of wood, I shall bring to you brass; and instead of stones - iron. And I shall appoint your rulers for peace, and your overseers for righteousness.
ISA 60:18 And injustice shall not be heard any longer in your land, nor destruction, nor misery within your borders. And your walls shall be called Deliverance, and your gates, Carving.
ISA 60:19 And the sun will not be to you any longer for the light of day, nor the rising moon shall give light to you at night. But the LORD will be to you an eternal light, even the God of your glory.
ISA 60:20 For the sun shall not go down to you, and the moon shall not subside to you. For the LORD will be to you an eternal light. And the days of your mourning shall be fulfilled.
ISA 60:21 And your people are all just, and they shall inherit the earth through the eon, keeping the thing planted, even the works of their hands for glory.
ISA 60:22 The very few will be for thousands, and the least for a great nation. I the LORD according to time shall gather them.
ISA 61:1 Spirit of the LORD is upon me, because of which he anointed me to announce good news to the poor. He has sent me to heal the ones being broken in the heart; to proclaim a release to captives, and recovery of sight to the blind;
ISA 61:2 to call the acceptable year of the LORD, and day of recompense; to comfort all the ones mourning;
ISA 61:3 to give to the ones mourning for Zion - glory instead of ashes; an anointing of gladness to them that mourn; according to an apparel of glory instead of a spirit of indifference. And they shall be called generations of righteousness, a thing planted of the LORD for glory.
ISA 61:4 And they shall build up everlasting wildernesses having been made quite desolate prior. They shall rise up and shall revive cities of wildernesses having been made quite desolate for generations.
ISA 61:5 And foreigners shall come tending your sheep, and Philistines as plowmen and vine dressers.
ISA 61:6 And you shall be called priests of the LORD. Ministers of our God - it shall be said to you. You shall devour strength of nations, and in their riches you shall be admired.
ISA 61:7 Thus of a second time they shall inherit the land, and everlasting gladness is above their head.
ISA 61:8 For I am the LORD, the one loving righteousness, and detesting seizures by injustice. And I will give their effort to the just ones, and I shall ordain an eternal covenant with them.
ISA 61:9 And their seed shall be known among the nations, and their progeny in the midst of the peoples. All seeing them will recognize them, for these are a seed being blessed by God.
ISA 61:10 And in gladness they shall be glad over the LORD. Let my soul exult over the LORD! For he clothed me with a cloak of deliverance, and an inner garment of gladness. As a groom, he put on me a mitre; and as a bride, he adorned me with an ornament.
ISA 61:11 And as the earth growing its flower, and as a garden sprouts forth its seeds, so the Lord the LORD will raise up righteousness, and a leap for joy before all the nations.
ISA 62:1 On account of Zion I will not keep silent, and on account of Jerusalem I will not spare, until whenever my righteousness comes forth as light, and my deliverance shall be burned as a lamp.
ISA 62:2 And nations shall see your righteousness, and all kings your glory. And he shall call you by your new name, which the mouth of the LORD shall name it.
ISA 62:3 And you will be a crown of beauty in the hand of the LORD, and a diadem of the kingdom in the hand of your God.
ISA 62:4 And no longer shall you be called - One Being Forsaken. And your land shall not be called - Desolation. For you shall be called - My will, and your land - Being Lived In. For the LORD took pleasure in you, and your land shall be lived in together.
ISA 62:5 And as a young man living with a virgin, so shall your sons dwell with you. And it will be in which manner a groom shall be glad over a bride, so the LORD will be glad over you.
ISA 62:6 And upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I placed keepers for the entire day and the entire night; ones who through the end shall not keep silent making mention of the LORD.
ISA 62:7 For there is not one likened to you, whenever he should set things right, and should make Jerusalem prancing upon the earth.
ISA 62:8 The LORD swore by an oath according to his right hand, and according to the strength of his arm, saying Shall I yet give your grain, and your foods to your enemies? and shall yet alien sons drink your wine for which you troubled to make?
ISA 62:9 But only ones gathering shall eat them, and shall praise the LORD; and the ones gathering shall drink them in my holy properties.
ISA 62:10 Go through my gates, and open a way for my people! And the stones of the ones from the way scatter away! Lift the agreed upon sign unto the nations!
ISA 62:11 For behold, the LORD made it audible unto the end of the earth. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, the deliverer is come to you, having his own wage with him, and his work before his face!
ISA 62:12 And he shall call them, Holy People Being ransomed By The LORD. But you shall be called, A City Being Anxiously Sought After, and not Being Abandoned.
ISA 63:1 Who is this coming from out of Edom, with garments dyed red from out of Bozrah? This one beautiful in his apparel, with a mighty force? I reason righteousness, and the case of deliverance.
ISA 63:2 Why are your clothes red, and your garments as from a trampled wine vat,
ISA 63:3 full of that being trampled? And of the nations there is not a man with me. And I trampled them in my rage, and I broke them in pieces as ground, and led their blood unto the ground, and all my garments I defiled.
ISA 63:4 For a day of recompense came upon them, and a year of ransoming is at hand.
ISA 63:5 And I looked, and there was not a helper. And I paid attention, and no one assisted. And my arm rescued them, and my rage attended to it.
ISA 63:6 And I trampled them in my anger, and I led down their blood unto the ground.
ISA 63:7 I remembered the mercy of the LORD; the virtues of the LORD in all which he recompenses to us. The LORD - a good judge to the house of Israel; he brings upon us according to his mercy, and according to the magnitude of his righteousness.
ISA 63:8 And he said, Children in no way will disrespect my people. And he became to them for deliverance,
ISA 63:9 from out of all their affliction. Not an ambassador, nor an angel, but he, the LORD delivered them, because of loving them. And he spared them - he ransomed them, and he took them, and raised them all the days of the eon.
ISA 63:10 But they resisted persuasion, and provoked his holy spirit. And the LORD turned against them for enmity; he waged war against them.
ISA 63:11 And he remembered everlasting days; the bringing up from the land the shepherd of the sheep. Where is the one having put the holy spirit in them?
ISA 63:12 the one leading Moses by the right hand, the one being the arm of his glory? He prevailed over water in front of him; he made for himself an everlasting name.
ISA 63:13 He led them through the deep, as a horse through a wilderness, and they tired not.
ISA 63:14 And as cattle led through a plain, spirit of the LORD descended, and guided them. Thus you led your people, to make for yourself a glorious name.
ISA 63:15 Turn from the heaven, and look from your holy house and of your glory! Where is your zeal and your strength? Where is the abundance of your mercy and your compassions, that you withheld from us?
ISA 63:16 For you are our father. For Abraham did not know us, and Israel did not recognize us. But you, O LORD our father, rescue us! From the beginning your name is upon us.
ISA 63:17 Why did you wander us, O LORD, from your way? You hardened our hearts to not fear you? Return on account of your servants, on account of the tribes of your inheritance,
ISA 63:18 that we should inherit a little of your holy mountain! Our adversaries trampled your sanctuary.
ISA 63:19 We became as from the beginning when you did not rule us, nor was your name called upon us.
ISA 64:1 If you should open the heaven, mountains shall take trembling from you, and they shall melt away;
ISA 64:2 as beeswax from fire shall melt away. And fire shall incinerate the adversaries, and your name will be for distinction among the adversaries. From in front of you nations shall be disturbed.
ISA 64:3 Whenever you should do the honorable things, trembling shall take hold of mountains.
ISA 64:4 From the eon we heard not, nor our eyes beheld a God besides you, and your works which you shall do to the ones waiting for mercy.
ISA 64:5 For he shall meet with the ones doing the just thing, and your ways shall be remembered. Behold, you have been provoked to anger, and we sinned; on account of this we were wandered.
ISA 64:6 And we all became as unclean. All our righteousness is as a menstrual rag sitting apart; and we flowed away as leaves; on account of our lawless deeds thus the wind shall bear us away.
ISA 64:7 And there is not one calling upon your name, nor one remembering to take hold of you. For you turned your face from us, and you delivered us up because of our sins.
ISA 64:8 And now, O LORD, you are our father, and we are mortar; we are all works of your hands.
ISA 64:9 You should not be provoked to anger with us very much, and our sins should not be remembered for a long time. And now, look upon us, O LORD, for we are all your people!
ISA 64:10 The city of your holiness became desolate. Zion became as desolate. Jerusalem for a curse.
ISA 64:11 The house our holy place, and the glory which our fathers blessed, became scorched; and all our honorable things are cast down.
ISA 64:12 And over all these things you endured, O LORD, and kept silent, and humbled us very much.
ISA 65:1 I became apparent to the ones not seeking for me; I was found by the ones not asking me. I said, Behold, I am - to the nation, the ones who did not call my name.
ISA 65:2 I spread forth my hands the entire day to a people resisting persuasion and disputing; the ones not having gone the good way, but after their sins.
ISA 65:3 This people provoking me is always before me. They sacrifice in the gardens, and they burn incense upon the bricks to the demons which are not.
ISA 65:4 And in the tombs in the caves they sleep for the sake of dreams; the ones eating meat of a pig, and by broth of sacrifices all their vessels are tainted.
ISA 65:5 The ones saying, Be at a distance from me, you should not approach me, for I am clean. This is the smoke of my rage - a fire burns with it all the days.
ISA 65:6 Behold, it is written in my presence; I shall not keep silent, until whenever I recompense. And I will recompense unto their bosom
ISA 65:7 their sins, and the ones of their fathers, says the LORD, the ones that burnt incense upon the mountains, and berated me upon the hills. I will recompense their works into their bosom.
ISA 65:8 Thus says the LORD, In which manner the grape-stone shall be found in the cluster of grapes, and they shall say, You should not lay it waste, for there is a blessing in it; so I will do because of the ones serving me - because of this one in no way shall I destroy all.
ISA 65:9 And I shall lead out the one of the seed of Jacob, and the one of Judah, and he shall inherit my holy mountain. And my chosen and my servants shall inherit it, and they shall dwell there.
ISA 65:10 And there shall be in the grove folds of flocks; and the ravine of Achor for a resting place of herds to my people, who sought me.
ISA 65:11 But you are the ones having abandoned me, and having forgotten my holy mountain, and are preparing a table to the demon, and filling a mixture to good luck Tyche, the goddess of fortune..
ISA 65:12 I will deliver you unto the sword - you shall all fall by slaughter; for I called you, and you hearkened not; I spoke, and you disregarded; and you did the wicked thing before me, and what I did not want you chose.
ISA 65:13 On account of this, Thus says the LORD, Behold, the ones serving to me shall eat, but you shall hunger. Behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall thirst. Behold, the ones serving me shall be glad, but you shall be ashamed.
ISA 65:14 Behold, the ones serving me shall exult in gladness, but you shall cry out because of the misery of your heart; and from the destruction of your spirit you shall shriek.
ISA 65:15 For you shall leave behind your name for a glut to my chosen, and the LORD shall do away with you. But to the ones that serve to me, they shall be called by a new name,
ISA 65:16 which shall be blessed upon the earth. For they shall bless the true God. And the ones swearing by an oath upon the earth, shall swear by an oath on the true God. For they shall forget their first affliction, and it shall not ascend unto their heart.
ISA 65:17 For there will be the new heaven, and the new earth. And in no way shall they remember the former things, nor in any way shall it come upon their heart.
ISA 65:18 But they shall find in her gladness and a leap for joy. For behold, I make Jerusalem a leap for joy, and over my people for gladness.
ISA 65:19 And I shall exult over Jerusalem, and shall be glad over my people. And no longer shall there be heard in her a voice of weeping, nor a voice of crying;
ISA 65:20 nor in any way shall there be yet an untimely miscarriage, nor an old man who shall not fill up his time. For the young man will be a hundred years old, and the sinner will be accursed dying at a hundred years old.
ISA 65:21 And they shall build residences, and they shall dwell in them. And they shall plant vineyards, and they shall eat their produce, and shall drink the wine.
ISA 65:22 In no way shall they build, and another dwell therein; and in no way shall they plant, and another eat of it. For according to the days of the life of a tree will be the days of my people, for the works of their hands shall grow old.
ISA 65:23 And my chosen shall not tire in empty things, nor shall they produce children for a curse; for it is a seed being blessed by God, and their progeny with them.
ISA 65:24 And it will be before their crying out, I will hearken unto them; yet during their speaking I will say, What is it?
ISA 65:25 Then wolves and lambs shall graze together; and the lion shall eat straw as an ox; and the serpent shall eat of the earth as bread; they shall not do wrong nor lay waste upon my holy mountain, says the LORD.
ISA 66:1 Thus says the LORD, The heaven is my throne, and the earth a footstool for my feet. What kind of house shall you build to me? and what kind of place for my rest?
ISA 66:2 For all these things I made by my hand, and all these are mine, says the LORD. And upon whom shall I look upon? but only upon the humble and unassuming, and the one trembling at my words.
ISA 66:3 But the lawless one, the one sacrificing a calf to me is as the one striking a man; and the one sacrificing of the flock is as the one killing a dog; and the one offering fine flour is as the one offering the blood of a pig; the one offering frankincense for a memorial is as blasphemous. And they chose their ways, and their abominations which their soul wanted.
ISA 66:4 And I will choose their mockeries, and I will recompense their sins against them; for I called them, and they hearkened not to me; I spoke and they heard not; and they acted wickedly before me, and chose that which I wanted not.
ISA 66:5 Hear the word of the LORD, O ones trembling at his word! Let your brothers speak to the ones detesting you, and abhorring you, that the name of the LORD should be glorified, and should be seen in their gladness, but those shall be ashamed.
ISA 66:6 A voice of a cry from out of the city; a voice from out of the temple; the voice of the LORD recompensing a recompense to the adversaries.
ISA 66:7 Before her travailing to give birth, before the coming of the misery of the pangs, she fled, and gave birth to a male.
ISA 66:8 Who heard such? and who has seen thus? Has the earth travailed in one day? or even a nation given birth at once, that Zion travailed and gave birth to her children?
ISA 66:9 But I gave this expectation, and you did not remember me, said the LORD. And behold, I made the one bearing and the one sterile, said your God.
ISA 66:10 Be glad, O Jerusalem, and let all the ones loving her assemble for a festival in her! And the ones dwelling her rejoice in joy, all as many as mourn for her!
ISA 66:11 that you should nurse and be filled up from the breast of her comfort; that sucking out, you should indulge at the introduction of her glory.
ISA 66:12 For thus says the LORD, Behold, I turn aside to them as a river of peace, and as a rushing stream inundating the glory of the nations. Their children shall be carried upon shoulders, and shall be comforted upon knees.
ISA 66:13 As if any mother shall comfort, so also I shall comfort you; and in Jerusalem you shall be comforted.
ISA 66:14 And you shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall rise up as pasturage; and the hand of the LORD shall be known to the ones fearing him, and he shall threaten the ones resisting persuasion.
ISA 66:15 For behold the LORD shall come as a fire, even as a blast by his chariots, to recompense punishment in rage, and being contemptuously rejected in a flame of fire.
ISA 66:16 For by the fire of the LORD all the earth shall be judged, and by his broadsword all flesh. Many shall be slain by the LORD.
ISA 66:17 The ones purifying themselves and cleansing themselves in the gardens, and the ones eating the meat of a pig and the abominations and the mouse in the thresholds, together shall be consumed, said the LORD.
ISA 66:18 And I know their works and their device. And I come to bring together all the nations, and the languages. And they shall come, and shall see my glory.
ISA 66:19 And I will leave upon them a sign. And I will send out from them ones having been delivered unto the nations - unto Tarshish, and Pul, and Lud, and Meshach, and Tubal, and unto Greece, and unto the islands - the ones at a distance, the ones who heard not of my name, nor have seen my glory. And they shall announce my glory among the nations.
ISA 66:20 And they shall lead your brothers from out of all the nations, as a gift to the LORD, with horses, and chariots - in royal chariots drawn by mules with awnings, into the holy city Jerusalem. And the LORD said, As the sons of Israel may offer their sacrifices to me with psalms in the house of the LORD,
ISA 66:21 that from them I will take priests and Levites, said the LORD.
ISA 66:22 For in which manner the new heaven and the new earth, which I make wait before me, says the LORD, so I shall establish your seed, and your name.
ISA 66:23 And it will be month by month, and sabbath by sabbath, all flesh shall come to do obeisance before me in Jerusalem, said the LORD.
ISA 66:24 And they shall go forth, and shall see the carcasses of the men violating against me. For their worm shall not come to an end, and their fire shall not be extinguished. And they will be for a sight to all flesh.
JER 1:1 The saying of God which came unto Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests who dwelt in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin.
JER 1:2 As the word of God came to him in the days of Josiah son of Amon king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his kingship.
JER 1:3 And it took place in the days of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, until the eleventh year of Zedekiah son of Josiah king of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
JER 1:4 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
JER 1:5 Before my shaping you in the belly I knew you; and before your coming forth from out of the womb I sanctified you; I appointed you prophet unto nations.
JER 1:6 And I said, O Being One, Master, O LORD, behold, I know not how to speak, for I am younger.
JER 1:7 And the LORD said to me, Do not say that! I am younger. For to all whom ever I should send you, you shall go; and according to all as much as I should give charge to you, you shall speak.
JER 1:8 You should not be fearful from in front of them, for I am with you, to rescue you, says the LORD.
JER 1:9 And the LORD stretched his hand to me, and touched my mouth. And the LORD said to me, Behold, I have placed my words in your mouth.
JER 1:10 Behold, I have ordained you today over nations, and over kingdoms, to root out, and to raze, and to loosen, and to rebuild, and to plant.
JER 1:11 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying, What do you see, Jeremiah? And I said, A walnut staff.
JER 1:12 And the LORD said to me, You have seen well; for I am vigilant over my words to do them.
JER 1:13 And the word of the LORD came to pass of a second time to me, saying, What do you see? And I said, A kettle being fired up, and the face of it towards the face of the north.
JER 1:14 And the LORD said to me, From the face of the north shall burn away the evils upon all the ones dwelling in the land.
JER 1:15 For behold, I call together all the kingdoms from the north, says the LORD; and they shall come, and each shall put his throne upon the thresholds of the gates of Jerusalem, and upon all the walls round about, and upon all the cities of Judah.
JER 1:16 And I shall speak to them with judgment concerning all their evil, as they abandoned me, and they sacrificed to strange gods, and did obeisance to the works of their hands.
JER 1:17 And you, gird your loin and rise up, and speak to them all as much as I should give charge to you! You should not be fearful from in front of them, nor should you be terrified before them, for I am with you to rescue you, says the LORD.
JER 1:18 Behold, I have made you in today's day as a fortified city, and as a fortified wall of brass all together against the kings of Judah, and its rulers, and to the people of the land.
JER 1:19 And they shall wage war against you; but in no way shall they be able to prevail against you, for I am with you to rescue you, said the LORD.
JER 2:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 2:2 Go, and yell into the ears of Jerusalem! saying, Thus says the LORD, I remembered the mercy of your youth, and the love of your consecration, for you to follow after the holy one of Israel, says the LORD;
JER 2:3 Holy Israel to the LORD, the beginning of his offspring. All the ones devouring him shall offend; evils shall come upon them, says the LORD.
JER 2:4 Hear the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and every family of the house of Israel!
JER 2:5 Thus says the LORD, What trespass did your fathers find in me that they left far from me, and went after the vain things, and acted in folly?
JER 2:6 And they said not, Where is the LORD, the one directing us from out of the land of Egypt, the one steering us in the wilderness, in a vast and untrodden land, in a land waterless and unfruitful, in a land in which a man traveled not through in it, and a man dwelt there not?
JER 2:7 And I brought you into Carmel, to eat the fruits of it, and the good things of it. And you entered, and defiled my land; and my inheritance you made into an abomination.
JER 2:8 The priests said not, Where is the LORD? And the ones holding to the law have not made acknowledgment to me; and the shepherds were impious to me; and the prophets prophesied by Baal, and they went after unprofitable things.
JER 2:9 On account of this, still I will arbitrate for you, says the LORD; and for the sons of your sons I will arbitrate.
JER 2:10 For go into the islands of the Chittim, and see! And send unto Kedar, and comprehend exceedingly! And see if such things have taken place,
JER 2:11 if nations changed their gods, and these are not gods! But my people changed their glory by which they do not derive benefit.
JER 2:12 The heaven is amazed by this, and shuddered over it much, exceedingly, says the LORD.
JER 2:13 For two and wicked things my people did to me; they abandoned the spring of water of life, and they dug for themselves cisterns having been broken which are not able to hold water.
JER 2:14 Is Israel a servant or is he native-born? Why did he become for plunder?
JER 2:15 Upon him the lions roar, and the ones who ordered his land for extinction gave out their voice. And his cities they razed so as for no one to dwell.
JER 2:16 And the sons of Memphis and Tahapanhes knew you, and were mocking you.
JER 2:17 Were not these things done to you for your forsaking me, says the LORD your God?
JER 2:18 And now, what is it to you and the way of Egypt, to drink the water of Sihor? And what is it to you in the way of the Assyrians, to drink water of the rivers?
JER 2:19 Your defection shall correct you, and your evil shall reprove you. And know and see that your forsaking me is bitter to you! says the LORD your God. And I thought not well in you, says the LORD your God.
JER 2:20 For from the eon you broke your yoke, and tore up your bonds. And you said, I will not serve, but I will go upon every high hill, and underneath every shady tree; there I will disperse in my harlotry.
JER 2:21 But I planted you a grapevine bearing fruit - all true. How are you turned into bitterness - a strange grapevine?
JER 2:22 If you should wash in bleach, and should multiply soap to yourself, still you are spotted in your iniquities before me, says the LORD.
JER 2:23 How will you say, I was not defiled, and I went not after Baal? Behold your ways in the cemetery, and know what you did! Her voice shrieks in the evening.
JER 2:24 Her ways widen over waters of the wilderness; in the desires of her soul she was being carried by the wind; she was delivered up to them; who will turn her? All the ones seeking her shall not tire; in her humiliation they shall find her.
JER 2:25 Turn your foot from the rough way, and your throat from thirst! But she said, I will be manly. For I loved strangers, and went after them.
JER 2:26 As shame of a thief whenever he should be captured, so shall the sons of Israel be ashamed; they, and their kings, and their rulers, and their priests, and their prophets.
JER 2:27 They said to the tree that, You are my father; and to the stone, You engendered me. And they turned their backs against me, and not their faces. And in the time of their evils they shall say, Rise up and deliver us!
JER 2:28 And where are your gods which you made for yourself? Shall they rise up and deliver you in the time of your ill-treatment? For according to the number of your cities were your gods, O Judah; and according to the number of the corridors of Jerusalem, they sacrificed to Baal.
JER 2:29 Why do you speak to me? You all acted impious, and you all acted lawlessly against me, says the LORD.
JER 2:30 In vain I struck your children. They received not correction. A sword devoured your prophets, as a lion annihilating, and you feared not.
JER 2:31 Hear the word of the LORD! Thus says the LORD, Did I become a wilderness to Israel, or a land being made barren? Why said my people, We will not be lorded over, and We shall not come to you any longer?
JER 2:32 Will the bride forget her bridal ornament, and the virgin her breastband? But my people forgot me for days which there is not a number.
JER 2:33 What good device will you yet apply in your ways to seek affection? It will not be thus. But even you did wicked to defile your ways.
JER 2:34 And in your hands was found blood of innocent souls. I found them not in ditches, but upon every oak.
JER 2:35 And you said, I am innocent, so turn his rage from me! Behold, I judge against you, in your saying, I sinned not.
JER 2:36 For you are disdained very much of the repeating a second time of your ways. And from Egypt you shall be disgraced, as you were disgraced by Assyria.
JER 2:37 For even from here you shall go forth, and your hands will be upon your head. For the LORD thrusted away your hope, and you shall not be prosperous in it.
JER 3:1 If a husband should send away his wife, and she should go forth from him, and becomes to another man, shall by returning she return to him yet again? Shall not by defiling that woman be defiled? But you fornicated with many shepherds, and you have returned to me, says the LORD.
JER 3:2 Lift your eyes unto the upright way, and see where you have not been defiled! You have sat upon the ways for them as a crowbar having been made desolate, and defiled the land in your harlotries, and in your evils.
JER 3:3 And you had many shepherds for your occasion for stumbling; the appearance of a harlot became to you; you cast shame to all.
JER 3:4 Was it not until now you called me even, Father? and, Head of your virginity?
JER 3:5 Shall it abide into the eon, or shall it be guarded for victory? Behold, you spoke and did these evils, and have prevailed.
JER 3:6 And the LORD said to me in the days of Josiah the king, You saw what the house of Israel did to me. She went upon every high mountain, and underneath every tree of the woods, and committed harlotry there.
JER 3:7 And I said after her committing harlotry all these things, Turn to me! And she turned not. And the Judah covenant-breaker saw her breach-of-contract.
JER 3:8 And I beheld, (for on account of all of which she was overtaken by them the house of Israel committed adultery, and I sent her out and gave to her a scroll certificate of divorce into her hands,) that the covenant-breaker Judah feared not, and went and committed harlotry even herself.
JER 3:9 And her harlotry was nothing to her; and she committed adultery with the wood and the stone.
JER 3:10 And in all these things the covenant-breaker Judah turned not to me with her whole heart, but with a lie.
JER 3:11 And the LORD said to me, Israel justified her soul above the covenant-breaker Judah.
JER 3:12 Go and read these words towards the north! And you shall say, Be returned to me, O house of Israel, says the LORD! And in no way shall I firmly fix my face against you. For I am merciful, says the LORD, and I shall not be infuriated with you into the eon.
JER 3:13 Only know your iniquity! For it is against the LORD your God you acted impious, and dispersed your ways unto strangers underneath every tree of the woods; but my voice you obeyed not, says the LORD.
JER 3:14 Return, O revolting sons, says the LORD! For I shall lord over you, and shall take you - one from out of a city, and two from out of a family; and I will bring you into Zion.
JER 3:15 And I will appoint to you shepherds according to my heart, and they shall tend you, tending with higher knowledge.
JER 3:16 And it will be if you should be multiplied, and should grow upon the land, says the LORD, in those days, they shall not say any more, Ark of the covenant of holy Israel. It shall not ascend upon the heart, nor be named, nor shall it be examined, and it shall not be done any more.
JER 3:17 In those days, and in that time they shall call Jerusalem, The throne of the LORD; and shall be brought together unto her all the nations; and they shall not go any more after the wicked thoughts of their heart.
JER 3:18 In those days the house of Judah shall come together with the house of Israel. And they shall come together from the land of the north, and from all the places upon the earth which I caused their fathers to inherit.
JER 3:19 And I said, May it be, O LORD, for you said, I shall arrange you among children, and I shall give to you a choice land ( the inheritance of God almighty) of nations. And I said, you shall call me father; and you shall not be turned from me.
JER 3:20 Only as a wife annuls against the one being with her, so the house of Israel annulled against me, says the LORD.
JER 3:21 A voice from the lips was heard of weeping and supplication of the sons of Israel. For they transgressed in their ways; they forgot God their holy one.
JER 3:22 Turn, O turning sons, and I shall heal your brokenness! Behold, thus we shall be to you, for you are the LORD our God.
JER 3:23 Really the hills and the powers of the mountains were for a lie. Only through the LORD our God is the deliverance of Israel.
JER 3:24 But the shame consumed the efforts of our fathers from our youth; their sheep and their calves, their sons and their daughters.
JER 3:25 We were gone to bed in our shame, and our dishonor covered us. For before our God we and our fathers sinned from our youth until this day, and we hearkened not of the voice of the LORD our God.
JER 4:1 If Israel should return, says the LORD, to me - he shall be returned. And if he should remove his abominations from his mouth, and should show reverence from in front of me,
JER 4:2 and should swear by an oath, The LORD lives, with truth in equity and in righteousness; then they shall bless nations by him, and in him they shall give praise to God in Jerusalem.
JER 4:3 For thus says the LORD to the men of Judah, and to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, Plow to yourselves fields prepared for plowing! And you should not sow among thorn-bushes.
JER 4:4 Circumcise yourselves to your God, and circumcise the hardness of your heart, O men of Judah, and O ones dwelling in Jerusalem! Lest my rage should go forth as fire, and shall be kindled, and there will not be one extinguishing from in front of the wickednesses of your practices.
JER 4:5 Announce in Judah, and hearken in Jerusalem! Say, Signify with a trumpet unto the land! Cry out great! Say, be gathered together! and, We should enter into the walled cities.
JER 4:6 In taking up your things, flee unto Zion! Hasten, do not stand! For I bring evils from the north, and great destruction.
JER 4:7 The lion ascended from out of his lair, utterly destroying nations; he lifted away and came forth from out of his place to make the earth for desolation; and your cities shall be demolished, so as to not dwell them.
JER 4:8 Concerning these things gird yourselves with sackcloths, and lament, and shout, for the rage of the anger of the LORD shall not be turned from you!
JER 4:9 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the rulers; and the priests shall be amazed, and the prophets shall wonder.
JER 4:10 And I said, O master, O LORD, Surely indeed in beguiling you beguiled this people, and Jerusalem, saying, Peace will be to you; whereas the sword shall touch unto their soul.
JER 4:11 In that time they shall say to this people, and to Jerusalem, There is a spirit of addiction to a delusion in the wilderness. The way of the daughter of my people is not to purity, nor to holiness.
JER 4:12 A spirit of fullness shall come to me; but now I shall speak my judgments against them.
JER 4:13 Behold, as a cloud he shall ascend, and his chariots as a blast. Lighter than eagles are his horses. Woe to us, for we are in misery.
JER 4:14 Wash your heart from evils, O Jerusalem, that you should be delivered! For how long shall the devices of your miseries exist in you?
JER 4:15 For a voice of one announcing from out of Dan shall come; and the misery from out of mount Ephraim shall be heard.
JER 4:16 Remind nations! Behold, announce in Jerusalem! Confederacies are come from out of a land far off, and they uttered their voices against the cities of Judah.
JER 4:17 As ones guarding a field they have come upon her round about; for you neglected me, says the LORD.
JER 4:18 Your ways and your practices did these things to you; this is your evil, for it is bitter, for it touched unto your heart.
JER 4:19 My belly, my belly aches, and the senses of my heart. My soul is irresistibly led. My heart is being thrown into a spasm. I shall not keep silent, for my soul heard the sound of a trumpet - a cry of war,
JER 4:20 and of misery. Conflict is being called upon, for all the land is in misery suddenly. The tent languishes; my hide coverings have been pulled apart.
JER 4:21 For how long shall I see ones fleeing, hearing the sound of a trumpet?
JER 4:22 For the ones leading of my people know me not; they are foolish sons, and not discerning; they are wise ones to do evil, but the doing good they have not recognized.
JER 4:23 I looked upon the earth, and behold - nothing; and into the heaven, and its lights were not.
JER 4:24 I beheld the mountains, and there was trembling, and all the hills were being disturbed.
JER 4:25 I looked, and behold, a man existed not, and all the birds of the heaven were terrified.
JER 4:26 I beheld, and behold, Carmel was desolate, and all the cities being set on fire, by fire from the countenance of the LORD; and from the countenance of the anger of his rage they were removed from view.
JER 4:27 Thus says the LORD, All the earth will be desolate; but in no way will I do it unto completion.
JER 4:28 Upon these things let the earth mourn, and let the heaven above be darkened, for I have spoken, and I shall not change my mind! I advanced it, and I will not turn from it.
JER 4:29 From the sound of a horseman, and tightly stretched bow, every place withdrew; they have entered into the caves, and they were hid in the sacred groves; and they ascended upon the rocks. Every city they abandoned; man dwells not in them.
JER 4:30 And you, what shall you do? If you should put on scarlet, and should be adorned with an ornament of gold; and if you should rub antimony on your eyes, your finery is in vain; your lovers thrusted you away - they seek your life.
JER 4:31 For I heard a sound as women travailing; your moaning as one giving birth for the first time. The voice of the daughter of Zion shall faint, and her hands shall weaken, saying, Woe am I, for my soul fails over the ones being done away with.
JER 5:1 Run about in the streets of Jerusalem, and see! And know, and seek in her squares if there should be found a man! If there is one having equity, and seeking trust - then I will be kind to them, says the LORD.
JER 5:2 As the LORD lives, they say, On account of this do they not swear an oath with lies?
JER 5:3 O LORD, your eyes look unto trust. You whipped them, and they were not pained. You finished them off entirely, but they wanted not to take correction. They solidified their faces above a rock, and they wanted not to turn towards you.
JER 5:4 And I said, perhaps they are poor; for they are not able. For they knew not the way of the LORD, and the equity of God.
JER 5:5 I will go to the stout men and speak to them; for they recognized the way of the LORD, and the equity of God. And behold, with one accord they broke the yoke - they tore up the bonds.
JER 5:6 On account of this a lion smote them from out of the forest; and the wolf annihilated them unto their houses; and a leopard acted vigilant over their cities. All the ones going forth from them shall be hunted; for they multiplied their impiety, they strengthened in their rejection.
JER 5:7 What kind of kindness should happen to you for these things? Your sons abandoned me, and they swore by an oath by the ones not being gods. And I have filled them, and they committed adultery, and rested up in the houses of harlots.
JER 5:8 They became sex-crazed horses; each snorting over the wife of his neighbor.
JER 5:9 Shall I not visit over these things, says the LORD? Or to such a nation shall not my soul take vengeance?
JER 5:10 Ascend upon her battlements, and raze! But you should not do it unto completion. Destroy her supports! For they are not of the LORD.
JER 5:11 For by disrespecting they disrespected against me, says the LORD, even the house of Israel, and the house of Judah.
JER 5:12 They have lied to their LORD, and they said, These things are not so; there shall not come upon us bad things, and the sword and hunger we will not see.
JER 5:13 Our prophets were into the wind, and the word of the LORD exists not among them. Thus it shall be to them.
JER 5:14 On account of this, thus says the LORD almighty, Because you spoke this word, behold, I have given my words into your mouth as fire, and this people as wood, and it shall devour them.
JER 5:15 Behold, I bring upon you a nation at a distance, O house of Israel, says the LORD; a strong nation, a nation from the eon, a nation of which you shall not hear the voice of its language;
JER 5:16 all strong men - his quiver is as a tomb being open.
JER 5:17 And they shall devour your harvest, and your breads. And they shall devour your sons, and your daughters. And they shall devour your sheep, and your calves. And they shall devour your vineyards, and your fig groves, and your olive groves. And they shall thresh your fortified cities (upon which you rely upon them) by the broadsword.
JER 5:18 And it will be in those days, says the LORD your God, in no way will I appoint you unto completion.
JER 5:19 And it will be whenever you should say, For what reason did the LORD our God do to us all these things? that you shall say to them, Because you abandoned me, and served strange gods in your land, thus shall you serve strangers in a land not of yours.
JER 5:20 Announce these things unto the house of Jacob, and let it be heard in Judah!
JER 5:21 Hearken indeed to these things, O moronish and heartless people! They have eyes, and they see not; they have ears, and they hear not.
JER 5:22 Will you not fear me, says the LORD? Or before my face will you not show veneration? The one ordering the sand for a limit to the sea as an eternal order, and the sea shall not pass over it; and it shall be disturbed but it shall not prevail; and its waves shall resound, but shall not pass over it.
JER 5:23 But to this people there became an unhearing heart, and a resistance of persuasion - they turned aside and departed.
JER 5:24 And they said not in their heart, We should indeed fear the LORD our God, the one giving to us the early and late rain, (according to its season of the fullness of the order of harvest,) and guarded it for us.
JER 5:25 Your lawless deeds turned aside these things, and your sins removed the good things from you.
JER 5:26 For impious ones were found among my people. And they set a snare to corrupt men; and they conceive their plan.
JER 5:27 As a snare having been set is full of birds, so their houses are full of treachery. On account of this they were magnified, and enriched.
JER 5:28 They became fat and violated equity. They judged not the case of the orphan, and they judged not for the case of the widow.
JER 5:29 Shall I not watch for these, says the LORD? Or to such a nation shall I not avenge my soul?
JER 5:30 A change of state and causes for shuddering was taken place upon the earth.
JER 5:31 The prophets prophesied unjustly, and the priests clapped their hands; and my people have loved it so. And what will you do in the times after these things?
JER 6:1 Grow in strength, O sons of Benjamin, from the midst of Jerusalem! And in Tekoa signify by trumpet! And over Beth-haccerem lift a sign! For bad things look out from the north, and great destruction is happening.
JER 6:2 And your haughtiness shall be removed, O daughter of Zion.
JER 6:3 Shepherds shall come unto her and their flocks; and they shall pitch tents against her round about; and each shall tend by his hand.
JER 6:4 Make preparations against her for war! Rise up, and we should ascend upon her at midday! Woe to us, for the day has declined, for the shadows of the day fail.
JER 6:5 Rise up, and we should ascend at night, and utterly destroy her foundations.
JER 6:6 For thus says the LORD of the forces, Cut down her trees! Discharge a force against Jerusalem, O lying city! Complete tyranny is in her.
JER 6:7 As a well cools its water, so evil cools her. Impiety and misery shall be heard in her before her face always.
JER 6:8 In misery and with a whip you shall be corrected, O Jerusalem, lest my soul should depart from you; lest I should make you an untrodden land which shall not be settled.
JER 6:9 For thus says the LORD of the forces, Glean! Glean the remnants of Israel as a grapevine! Return as one gathering the vintage returns unto his basket!
JER 6:10 To whom should I speak, and testify, and he shall hearken? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised, and they are not able to hear. Behold, the word of the LORD became to them as a scorning; in no way shall they be willing to hear it.
JER 6:11 And I filled my rage, and I waited, but not finished them off entirely. I will pour out upon the simple ones outside, and upon the gathering of young men together; for man and woman shall be seized; the elder with the one full of days.
JER 6:12 And their houses shall be transferred to others, with fields and their wives together. For I will stretch out my hand against the ones dwelling this land, says the LORD.
JER 6:13 For from their small and unto great all have completed lawless deeds; from the priest and unto false prophet, all acted falsely.
JER 6:14 And they repaired the destruction of my people treating it with contempt, and saying, Peace. And where is peace?
JER 6:15 They were shamed for they failed; but neither as ones being disgraced were they disgraced; and their dishonor they knew not. On account of this they shall fall in their downfall; and in the time of their visitation they shall perish, said the LORD.
JER 6:16 Thus says the LORD, Stand upon the ways, and behold, and ask of the eternal roads of the LORD, and see what kind is the good way, and proceed in it, and you will find purification to your souls! And they said, We will not go.
JER 6:17 I have placed over you watchmen - hearken to the sound of the trumpet! But they said, We will not hearken.
JER 6:18 On account of this, the nations heard, and the ones tending their flocks.
JER 6:19 Hearken, O earth! Behold, I will bring upon this people bad things - the fruit of their rejection. For my word they heeded not, and my law they have thrust away.
JER 6:20 Why do you bring frankincense from out of Sheba to me, and cinnamon from out of a land far off? Your whole burnt offerings are not acceptable, and your sacrifices delighted not to me.
JER 6:21 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Behold, I impute upon this people weakness, and fathers and sons shall weaken in it together; neighbor and his near one shall perish.
JER 6:22 Thus says the LORD, Behold, a people comes from the north, and nations shall be awakened from the end of the earth.
JER 6:23 Bow and pike they shall hold. It is audacious, and will not show mercy. Its sound is as the sea swelling up. Upon horses and chariots it shall deploy as fire for war against you, O daughter of Zion.
JER 6:24 We heard the report of them - our hands were disabled. Affliction holds us down - pangs as a woman giving birth.
JER 6:25 Do not go forth into a field, and do not proceed in the ways! For a broadsword of the enemies sojourns round about.
JER 6:26 Daughter of my people, gird on sackcloth! Strew ashes! You shall observe for yourself mourning as of a beloved one by beating the breast pitiably. For suddenly misery shall come upon you.
JER 6:27 I have appointed you as an approver among peoples being tried; and you shall know in my trying their way.
JER 6:28 All are unhearing, going crookedly; as brass and iron they are all being corrupted.
JER 6:29 The bellows failed at the fire; the lead failed; the silversmith works silver in vain; their wickednesses melt not away.
JER 6:30 Call them rejected silver! For the LORD rejected them.
JER 7:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, Stand upon the gate of the house of the LORD, and read there this word! And say,
JER 7:2 Hear the word of the LORD all Judea!
JER 7:3 Thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Set right your ways and your practices, and I will settle you in this place!
JER 7:4 Rely not upon yourselves with lying words, for thoroughly they will not benefit you, saying, The temple of the LORD, it is the temple of the LORD.
JER 7:5 For if in setting right you should set right your ways, and your practices; and in doing you should execute equity between a man and between his neighbor,
JER 7:6 and you should not tyrannize over the foreigner and orphan and widow, and you should not pour out innocent blood in this place, and you should not go after strange gods for your hurt;
JER 7:7 then I will settle you in your place, in the land which I gave to your fathers from the eon, and unto the eon.
JER 7:8 But since you rely upon lying words, from where you will not be benefitted;
JER 7:9 and you murder, and you commit adultery, and steal, and swear upon an oath unjustly, and burn incense to Baal, and go after strange gods whom you know not;
JER 7:10 it is to be wickedness to you. And you came and stood before me in the house which my name is called upon in it. And you said, We have kept a distance to do all these abominations.
JER 7:11 Is My house a cave of robbers, of which my name is called upon in it there before you? And behold, I have seen, says the LORD.
JER 7:12 For go unto my place, in Shiloh, where I encamped my name before it there prior, and see what I did to it because of the countenance of evil of my people Israel!
JER 7:13 And now, because you have done all these works, and I spoke to you, and you heard me not; and I called you, and you responded not;
JER 7:14 I also will do to this house (of which my name is called upon in it, upon which you relied upon it, and the place which I gave to you and to your fathers,) as I did to Shiloh.
JER 7:15 And I will throw you away from my face, as I threw away your brothers, all the seed of Ephraim.
JER 7:16 And you, do not pray for this people, and petition not to show them mercy, and make not a vow, and do not come forward to me concerning them! For I will not listen.
JER 7:17 Or do you not see what they do in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem?
JER 7:18 Their sons collect together wood, and their fathers kindle a fire, and their women knead dough to make cakes to the military of the heaven, and they offered libations to strange gods, that they should provoke me to anger.
JER 7:19 Do they not provoke me to anger, says the LORD? Do they not provoke themselves that their faces should be disgraced?
JER 7:20 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Behold, my anger and rage is poured upon this place, and upon the men, and upon the cattle, and upon every tree of the field, and upon the produce of the land, and it shall be kindled, and not extinguished.
JER 7:21 Thus says the LORD, Gather together your whole burnt offerings with your sacrifices, and eat meats!
JER 7:22 For I spoke not to your fathers, and I did not give charge to them in the day I led them from out of the land of Egypt concerning whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.
JER 7:23 But only this saying gave I charge to them, saying, Hearken to my voice, and I will be to you for God, and you will be to me for a people! And go in all my ways in which ever I should give charge to you, so even it might be good to you!
JER 7:24 And they listened not to me, and heeded not with their ear, but went by the thoughts of their evil heart; and they became for the rear, and not for the front.
JER 7:25 From which day their fathers went forth from out of the land of Egypt, and until this day, even I sent to you all my servants of the prophets by day; and at dawn also I sent.
JER 7:26 And they listened not to me, and their ear took not heed, and they hardened their neck above their fathers.
JER 7:27 And you shall say to them this word, and they will not listen to you. And you shall call them, and they will not respond to you.
JER 7:28 And you shall say to them, This is the nation which hearkened not to the voice of the LORD their God, nor received instruction - trust failed from their mouth.
JER 7:29 Shear your head, and throw away, and take upon your lips wailing! For the LORD rejected and thrust away the generation doing these things.
JER 7:30 For the sons of Judah did wicked before me, says the LORD. They arranged their abominations in the house of which my name is called upon it, to defile it.
JER 7:31 And they built the shrine of Tophet, which is in the ravine of the son of Hinnom, to incinerate their sons and their daughters by fire; which I did not give charge to them, and considered it not in my heart.
JER 7:32 On account of this, Behold, days come, says the LORD, and they shall not say any more, Shrine of Tophet, and Ravine of the Son of Hinnom, but, The Ravine of the ones Being done away with. And they shall entomb in Tophet, on account of a place not existing.
JER 7:33 And the dead of this people will be for food to the birds of the of heaven, and to the wild beasts of the earth; and there will not be one frightening them away.
JER 7:34 And I will depose from out of the cities of Judah, and from out of the corridors of Jerusalem, the voice of ones being glad, and the voice of ones rejoicing, the voice of the groom, and the voice of the bride; for all the land will be for desolation.
JER 8:1 In that time, says the LORD, they shall bring forth the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of its rulers, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of their prophets, and the bones of the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, from out of their burying-places.
JER 8:2 And they shall freshen them to the sun, and to the moon, and to all the stars, and to all the military of the heaven, which they loved, and which they served, and of which they went after them, and which they held to, and to which they did obeisance to them. They shall not be lamented, and they shall not be entombed. And they will be for an example upon the face of the earth.
JER 8:3 For they took death rather than life, even to all the ones remaining being left behind from that generation, in every place of which ever I shall push them there.
JER 8:4 For thus says the LORD, Shall the one falling not be raised up, or the one turning, not return?
JER 8:5 Why turned this people in an impudent rejection, and they hold firmly to their resolve, and they wanted not to return?
JER 8:6 Give ear indeed, and hearken! Will they not rightly speak? There is not a man repenting from his evil, saying, What did I do? The one running stopped from his race, as a horse sweating in his snorting.
JER 8:7 Even the stork in the heaven knew her time, and the turtle-dove and the swallow of the field. The sparrows guard the times of their entrances, but my people knew not the judgments of the LORD.
JER 8:8 How shall you say that, We are wise ones, and, The law of the LORD is with us? For the lying rush reed pen became vain to the scribes.
JER 8:9 The wise ones are ashamed, terrified, and convicted; for the word of the LORD they rejected; what wisdom is in them?
JER 8:10 On account of this, I give their wives to others, and their fields to the heirs. For from small unto great all pursue a fondness of money. And from prophet unto priest all commit lies,
JER 8:11 and treating the broken daughter of my people with dishonor, saying, Peace peace; and there was not peace.
JER 8:12 They have been shamed, for they did an abomination. And with shame they were not ashamed; even to be ashamed they knew not. On account of this they shall fall in the midst of ones falling. In the time of his visit they shall fall, says the LORD.
JER 8:13 And they shall gather of their produce, says the LORD - there is not a grape on the grapevines, and there is not figs on the fig-trees, and the leaves have flown down.
JER 8:14 For why do we sit? Come together, and we should enter into the fortified cities, and we should be disowned there; for God disowned us, and gave us to drink water of bile, for we sinned before him.
JER 8:15 We have gathered together for peace, and there was not good things in the time of healing, but behold, anxiety.
JER 8:16 From out of Dan we shall hear a sound of his swift horses. From a sound of snorting of ones riding his horses all the land shall be shaken. And he shall come and devour the land, and the fullness of it - the city, and the ones dwelling in it.
JER 8:17 For behold, I send out against you serpents putting to death, ones which are not charmed, and they shall bite you -
JER 8:18 incurably with the grief of your heart being perplexed.
JER 8:19 Behold, the sound of a cry - the daughter of my people from a land far off, saying, Is the LORD not in Zion? Or is not a king there? For they provoked me to anger by their idolatrous carvings, and by strange vanities.
JER 8:20 Summer went, harvest passed, and we were not delivered.
JER 8:21 Upon destruction of the daughter of my people I have been enveloped in darkness; in perplexity pangs prevailed over me as a woman giving birth.
JER 8:22 And is not balm not in Gilead? and Is not a physician there? Why did a healing not ascend for the daughter of my people?
JER 9:1 Who will give my head water, and my eyes a spring of tears, that I shall weep for this my people day and night - the ones being slain of the daughter of my people?
JER 9:2 Who shall give to me a post house at the end of the wilderness? for I shall leave my people, and shall go forth from them; for all commit adultery - a convocation of ones annulling covenant.
JER 9:3 And they stretched tight their tongue as a bow; a lie and not trust grows in strength upon the earth; for they went from evils unto evils, and they knew me not, says the LORD.
JER 9:4 Let each take guard of his neighbor, and let them not rely upon their brothers! For every brother shall stomp with the heel, and every friend shall go deceitfully.
JER 9:5 Each shall mock against his friend. In no way shall they speak truth. Their tongue has learned to speak falsely. They wronged, and stopped not to turn back.
JER 9:6 Interest upon interest, treachery upon treachery; they did not want to behold me, says the LORD.
JER 9:7 On account of this, Thus says the LORD of the forces, Behold, I shall set them on fire, and try them. What will I act before the face of the wickedness of the daughter of my people?
JER 9:8 Their tongue is a piercing arrow; the words of their mouth deceitful; one speaks peaceably to his neighbor, and in himself he has hatred.
JER 9:9 Shall I not visit upon these, says the LORD? or, shall my soul not take vengeance on such a people?
JER 9:10 Over the mountains, take up a lamenting! And over the roads of the wilderness, a wailing! For they failed by there not being men. They heard not the sound of the existence of winged creatures of the heaven. And the cattle receded - they were set out.
JER 9:11 And I will give Jerusalem for displacement, and for a home of dragons. And the cities of Judah I will appoint for extinction, so as to not be dwelt in.
JER 9:12 Who is the discerning man? Then let him perceive this! And the word of the mouth of the LORD is with him. Let him announce to you on account of why the land was destroyed! It was lit on fire as a wilderness, so as to not travel through it.
JER 9:13 And the LORD said to me, On account of their abandoning my law which I put before their face, and they hearkened not to my voice;
JER 9:14 but they went after the things pleasing their heart - the evil thing; and after the idols which their fathers taught them.
JER 9:15 On account of this, thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Behold, I will feed them distresses, and will cause them to drink water of bile.
JER 9:16 And I will disperse them among the nations which they knew not, nor their fathers. And I will send the sword as a successor upon them, until they are completely consumed by it.
JER 9:17 Thus says the LORD, Call the wailing women and let them come! And to the wise woman send, and let them utter their voice!
JER 9:18 And let them take upon you a lamentation! And let your eyes lead down tears! And let your eyelids flow water!
JER 9:19 For a voice of lament was heard in Zion, saying, O how we became in misery. We were disgraced very much, for we abandoned the land, and threw away our tents.
JER 9:20 Hear indeed, O women, the word of God, and let your ears receive the words of his mouth, and teach your daughters a lamentation, and a woman her neighbor wailing!
JER 9:21 For death ascended through your windows; it entered into your land to obliterate infants outside, and young men from the squares.
JER 9:22 And the dead of men will be for an example upon the face of the plain of your land; and as grass after being mowed, and there will not be one gathering.
JER 9:23 Thus says the LORD, Let not the boast wise one in his wisdom! And let not the strong man boast in his strength! And let not the rich man boast in his riches!
JER 9:24 But in this boasting let him boast! To perceive and to know me, that I am the LORD, the one having mercy, and judgment, and righteousness upon the earth. For my will is in these things, says the LORD.
JER 9:25 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and I will visit upon all having been circumcised of their uncircumcision -
JER 9:26 upon Egypt, and upon Judah, and upon Edom, and upon the sons of Ammon, and upon the sons of Moab, and upon every one shaving round about his face dwelling in the wilderness. For all the nations are uncircumcised in flesh, and all the house of Israel uncircumcised of their heart.
JER 10:1 Hear the word of the LORD which he spoke to you, O house of Israel!
JER 10:2 Thus says the LORD, Do not learn according to the ways of the nations! And from the signs of the heaven do not fear! For nations are fearing them.
JER 10:3 For the laws of the nations are vain. An idol is a tree being cut from out of the forest, the work of a fabricator, even a molten casting.
JER 10:4 It is being bedecked in silver and gold. By a hammer and nail they stiffen them,
JER 10:5 and they move not. It is a silver turned piece - they do not speak. Being lifted they shall be lifted, for they shall not mount themselves. You should not fear them, for in no way should they do evil, and there is not good in them.
JER 10:6 There is not one likened to you, O LORD. Great are you, and great is your name in strength.
JER 10:7 Who shall not fear you, O king of nations? For to you it is becoming. For among all the wise ones of the nations, and among all their kingdoms, there is not one likened to you.
JER 10:8 At the same time they are foolish and unthinking. Their tree is an instruction of vanities.
JER 10:9 Amalgamated silver from Tarshish; gold shall come from Uphaz; and by the hand of goldsmiths they are all works of craftsmen. They shall put on them blue and purple.
JER 10:11 Thus you shall say to them, The gods who did not make the heaven and the earth, let them be destroyed from the earth, and from beneath this heaven!
JER 10:12 The LORD is the one making the earth by his strength, erecting the place being inhabited by his wisdom, and by his intellect he stretched out the heaven,
JER 10:13 and the multitude of water in heaven, and led clouds from the end of the earth, and made lightnings for the rain, and brought out winds from his treasuries.
JER 10:14 Every man was made moronish from knowledge; every goldsmith was disgraced over his carved idols; for they cast false in a furnace - there is not breath in them.
JER 10:15 They are vanities, mocking works. In the time of their visitation they shall be destroyed.
JER 10:16 Such is not the portion to Jacob. For the one shaping all things is he, and Israel is the rod of his inheritance - the LORD of forces is his name.
JER 10:17 He gathered his support from outside dwelling in choice vessels.
JER 10:18 For thus says the LORD, Behold, I trip up the ones dwelling this land, and I will squeeze them out so that it should be found so.
JER 10:19 Woe over your destruction, your wound is painful. And I said, Really this is my wound, and it overtook me.
JER 10:20 My tent is in miserable condition, it was destroyed; and all of my hide coverings were pulled apart. My sons and my sheep are not. There is not more place for my tent, nor a place for my hide coverings.
JER 10:21 For the shepherds were unwise, and sought not the LORD. On account of this all the sheep of the pasture comprehended not, and are dispersed.
JER 10:22 Behold there comes a sound of a report, and a great quake from out of the land of the north, to order the cities of Judah for extinction, and for a bed of ostriches.
JER 10:23 I know, O LORD, that the way of man is not his own; nor shall a man go and keep his goings straight.
JER 10:24 Correct us, O LORD, only with equity, and not in rage, that you should not make us few!
JER 10:25 Pour out your rage upon the nations not knowing you, and upon kingdoms which called not upon your name! For they devoured Jacob, and completely consumed Israel, and made desolate his pasture.
JER 11:1 The word coming from the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 11:2 Hear the words of this covenant! And you shall speak to the men of Judah, and to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem.
JER 11:3 And you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD God of Israel, Accursed is the man who shall not hearken to the words of this covenant,
JER 11:4 of which I gave charge to your fathers in the day I led them from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the furnace of iron, saying, Hearken to my voice, and do all as much as I give charge to you! And you will be to me for a people, and I will be to you for God;
JER 11:5 so that I should establish my oath which I swore by an oath to your fathers, to give to them a land flowing milk and honey, as this day. And I answered, and said, May it be, O LORD.
JER 11:6 And the LORD said to me, Read all these words in the cities of Judah, and outside of Jerusalem! saying, Hear the words of this covenant, and do them!
JER 11:7 For bearing witness together I bore witness to your fathers in the day in which I led them out of the land of Egypt, until this day. Rising early I bore witness, saying, Hear my voice! And they heard not, and they inclined not their ear; but they went each in the deformity of his evil heart. And all the words of this covenant were brought in unto them, of which I commanded to be done.
JER 11:8 But they did not act.
JER 11:9 And the LORD said to me, A conspiracy is found among the men of Judah, and among the ones dwelling in Jerusalem.
JER 11:10 They returned unto the iniquities of their fathers prior, who wanted not to listen to my words. And behold, they went after strange gods, to serve them. And the house of Israel and the house of Judah effaced my covenant which I ordained with their fathers.
JER 11:11 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Behold, I bring upon them evils, from out of which they shall not be able to come forth from out of them. And they shall cry out to me, and I will not listen to them.
JER 11:12 And the cities of Judah and the ones dwelling Jerusalem shall go, and shall cry out to their gods to whom they burn incense to them; the ones which shall not deliver them in the time of their evils.
JER 11:13 For according to the number of your cities were your gods, O Judah. And according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem you arranged shrines to burn incense to Baal.
JER 11:14 And you, do not pray for this people, and do not petition concerning them with supplication and prayer! For I will not listen in the time in which they call upon me, in the time of their affliction.
JER 11:15 What abomination did the one being loved in my house do? Shall vows and holy meats remove from you your evils, or by these will you evade?
JER 11:16 The LORD called your name a beautiful well-shaded olive tree to the sight. In the sound of its being lopped a fire was lit unto it; her tender branches were made useless.
JER 11:17 And the LORD of the forces, having planted you, spoke evils against you - against the evils of the house of Israel, and the house of Judah; for they did it to themselves, provoking me to anger in their burning incense to Baal.
JER 11:18 O LORD, make it known to me, and I shall know! Then I knew their practices.
JER 11:19 But I am as a little lamb, guileless, being led for the sacrificing, not knowing. Against me they devised a device, saying, Come, and we should put wood for his bread, and we should obliterate him from the land of the living; and his name in no way shall be remembered any longer.
JER 11:20 O LORD of the forces, judging just things, trying the kidneys and the hearts, may I behold the punishment exacted by you on them. For to you I revealed my right action.
JER 11:21 On account of this, Thus says the LORD against the men of Anathoth, seeking my life, saying, In no way should you prophesy in the name of the LORD, and if you do not agree you shall die by our hands.
JER 11:22 On account of this, thus says the LORD of the forces, Behold, I will make a visit unto them. Their young men shall die by the sword; their sons and their daughters shall come to an end in famine,
JER 11:23 and there will not be left any of them. For I will bring evils upon the ones dwelling in Anathoth, in the year of their visitation.
JER 12:1 You are just, O LORD, that I may plead to you. I will speak to you only concerning judgments. Why is it that the way of the impious ones prospers? All the ones disregarding by disregardings prospered.
JER 12:2 You planted them, and they were rooted. They produced children, and they produced fruit. You are near their mouth, and at a distance from their kidneys.
JER 12:3 And you, O LORD, know me. You have tried my heart before you. Gather them as a flock for a sacrifice, and purify them for the day of slaughter!
JER 12:4 For how long will the land mourn, and all the grass of the field be dried, because of the evils of the ones dwelling in it? The cattle and the winged creatures were removed from view, for they said, God shall not see our ways.
JER 12:5 Your feet run, and they cause you to faint; how then will you make preparations to ride upon horses? And you have relied in the land of your peace, how then will you do in the neighing raging. of the Jordan?
JER 12:6 For even your brothers, and the house of your father, even they disregarded you. And they yelled out, they assembled at your rear, you should not trust in them when they speak with you good words.
JER 12:7 I have abandoned my house, I let go of my inheritance, I gave the one being loved of my soul into the hands of her enemies.
JER 12:8 My inheritance became to me as a lion in the forest; she uttered her voice against me - on account of this I detested her.
JER 12:9 Is not the cave of a hyena my inheritance to me, the cave round about her against her? Proceed, bring together all the wild beasts of the field, and let them come to eat her!
JER 12:10 Many shepherds corrupted my vineyard, they tainted my portion, they made my desirable portion for an untrodden wilderness.
JER 12:11 It was appointed for extinction by destruction; on account of me all the land was obliterated in extinction, for there is not a man putting it to heart.
JER 12:12 Upon every mountain pass in the wilderness came the ones causing misery. For the sword of the LORD shall devour from one tip of the land unto the other tip of the land - there is not peace to all flesh.
JER 12:13 You sowed wheat, and harvested thorn-bushes. Their lots shall not benefit them. Be ashamed of your boasting, because of scorn before the LORD!
JER 12:14 For thus says the LORD, Concerning all the wicked neighbors touching my inheritance, which I portioned to my people Israel; behold, I draw them away from their land, and Judah I will cast out from the midst of them.
JER 12:15 And it will be after my casting them out I will return, and will show mercy on them, and will settle them each in his inheritance, and each in his land.
JER 12:16 And it will be if in learning they should learn the way of my people, to swear by an oath to my name, saying, As the LORD lives; as they taught my people to swear by an oath to Baal; then they shall be edified in the midst of my people.
JER 12:17 But if they should not return, then I shall lift away that nation by removal and destruction, says the LORD.
JER 13:1 Thus says the LORD, Proceed and acquire for yourself a flaxen linen loincloth, and put it around your loin, and you shall not go through water!
JER 13:2 And I acquired the loincloth according to the word of the LORD, and put it around my loin.
JER 13:3 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me of a second time, saying,
JER 13:4 Take the loincloth around your loin, and arise, and proceed unto the Euphrates, and hide it there in the hole of the rock!
JER 13:5 And I went, and hid it by the Euphrates, as the LORD gave charge to me.
JER 13:6 And it came to pass after many days, and the LORD said to me, Arise! Proceed unto the Euphrates, and take from there the loincloth which I gave charge to you to hide it there!
JER 13:7 And I went unto the Euphrates, and I dug, and I took the loincloth from out of the place where I hid it there. And behold, it was ruined, which in no way should it be used for anything.
JER 13:8 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 13:9 Thus says the LORD, Thus I shall corrupt the insolence of Judah, and the insolence of Jerusalem;
JER 13:10 this great insolence of the ones not wanting to obey my words, and having gone in straightness of their wicked heart, and having gone after strange gods, to serve to them, and to do obeisance to them. And they will be as this loincloth, which shall not be used yet for anything.
JER 13:11 For just as the loincloth cleaves around the loin of a man, so I cleaved to myself the house of Israel, and all the house of Judah, says the LORD; to be to me for a famous people, and for a boasting, and for glory. And they hearkened not to me.
JER 13:12 And you shall say to the people this word, Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel. Every leather bag shall be filled of wine. And it will be if they should say to you, Is it in not knowing, we know not that every leather bag shall be filled of wine?
JER 13:13 That you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD, Behold, I shall fill all the ones dwelling this land, and their kings, the ones sitting down of the sons of David upon their throne, and the priests, and the prophets, and Judah, and all the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, with strong drink.
JER 13:14 And I will disperse them, a man and his brother, and their fathers, and their sons in the same way. I will not long after them, says the LORD, and I will not spare; and I will not pity at their ruin.
JER 13:15 Hear, and give ear, and do not be encouraged! For the LORD spoke.
JER 13:16 Give to the LORD your God glory before the darkening, and before the stumbling of your feet upon dark mountains! And you shall await for light, and there is the shadow of death, and they shall be put into darkness.
JER 13:17 But if you should not hearken, secretly your soul shall weep from in front of insolence; and your eyes shall lead down tears. For the flock of the LORD was broken up.
JER 13:18 Say to the king, and to the ones being in power, Be humbled, and sit down! For your crown of glory was demolished from your head.
JER 13:19 The cities towards the south were closed up, and there was not one opening. Judah was resettled, they completed in it a complete resettlement.
JER 13:20 Lift up your eyes, O Jerusalem, and behold the ones coming from the north! Where is the flock which was given to you, the sheep of your glory?
JER 13:21 What shall you say whenever they should visit you, and you taught them lessons for rule against yourself? Shall not pangs control you as a woman giving birth?
JER 13:22 And if you shall say in your heart, Why have these things met up with me? On account of the magnitude of your iniquity your posteriors were uncovered, to make an example of your heels.
JER 13:23 If the Ethiopian shall change his skin, and the leopard her colors, then you shall be able to do good while learning the bad.
JER 13:24 And I scattered them as sticks being carried by the wind into a wilderness.
JER 13:25 Thus is your lot and portion for your resisting me, says the LORD; as you forgot me, and hoped upon lies,
JER 13:26 even I will uncover your rear unto your face, and your dishonor shall be seen.
JER 13:27 Your adultery, and your snorting, and the alienation of your harlotry upon the hills, and in the fields I have seen - your abominations. Woe to you, O Jerusalem, for you were not cleansed to follow after me - for how long yet?
JER 14:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah concerning the drought.
JER 14:2 Judea mourned, and her gates are emptied, and are enveloped in darkness upon the earth, and the cry of Jerusalem ascended.
JER 14:3 And her great men sent their younger ones for water. They came upon the wells, and did not find water. They returned their receptacles empty.
JER 14:4 And the works of the land failed, for there was not any rain. The farmers were ashamed, they covered their head.
JER 14:5 And the hinds in the field gave birth, and abandoned it, for there was not a pasturage.
JER 14:6 The wild donkeys stood upon the groves, and drewsniffed. wind as dragons; their eyes failed, for there was not grass.
JER 14:7 Since our sins opposed us, O LORD, do for us because of your name! For our sins are many before you. Against you we sinned.
JER 14:8 You are the endurance of Israel, O LORD, delivering in time of evils. Why did you become as a sojourner upon the earth, and as a native-born turning aside for lodging?
JER 14:9 Will you be as a man sleeping, or as a man not being able to deliver? But you are among us, O LORD, and your name is called upon us; you should not forget us.
JER 14:10 Thus says the LORD to this people, They loved to move their feetwander., and spared not, and God prospered not the way among them. Now the iniquity shall be remembered, and he visited their sins.
JER 14:11 And the LORD said to me, Do not pray for this people for good!
JER 14:12 For if they should fast, I will not listen to their supplication. And if they should bring whole burnt offerings, and sacrifices, I will not think well of them. For by sword, and by famine, I will finish them off entirely unto death.
JER 14:13 And I said, O Being One, O LORD. Behold, the prophets prophesy and say, You shall not see a sword, nor shall hunger be among you; but truth and peace I shall appoint upon the land, and in this place.
JER 14:14 And the LORD said to me, the prophets prophesy lies in my name. I sent them not, and gave charge to them not, and spoke not to them. For lying visions, and divinations, and omens, and the resolves of their own heart they prophesy to you.
JER 14:15 On account of this, thus says the LORD, concerning the prophets prophesying lies in my name, and I sent them not, who say, Sword and famine will not be upon this land - by a diseased death the prophets shall die and by hunger they shall be finished off entirely,
JER 14:16 even the people to whom they prophesy to them. And they will be tossed in the streets of Jerusalem, from in front of the sword, and of the famine. And there will not be one entombing them, even their wives, and their sons, and their daughters. And I shall pour out against them for their evils.
JER 14:17 And you shall say to them this word, Lead down tears into your eyes day and night, and let them not stop! For by a great defeat the daughter of my people was defeated, even by an exceedingly grievous beating.
JER 14:18 If I should go forth into the plain, then behold, ones slain by sword. And if I should enter into the city, then behold, the misery of famine. For priest and prophet were gone into a land which they knew not.
JER 14:19 Did by rejecting you reject Judah? And has your soul removed itself from Zion? Why did you smite us, and there is not a healing for us? We waited for peace, but there was not good; for a time of healing, but behold, only disturbance.
JER 14:20 We knew, O LORD, our sins, the iniquities of our fathers; for we sinned before you.
JER 14:21 Abate, on account of your name! You should not destroy the throne of your glory. Remember, you should not efface your covenant with us!
JER 14:22 Is there one among the idols of the nations causing rain, and shall an idol give the heaven its fullness? Is it not you being he, O LORD our God? And we shall wait on you, for you made all these.
JER 15:1 And the LORD said to me, If Moses and Samuel should stand before my face my soul is not for them. Send out this people from my face, and let them go forth!
JER 15:2 And it will be if they should say to you, Where shall we go forth? That you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD, As many as for death, to death; and as many as for sword, to sword; and as many as for famine, to famine; and as many as for captivity, to captivity.
JER 15:3 And I will avenge against them four forms, says the LORD; the sword unto slaughter, and the dogs for tearing in pieces, and the wild beasts of the earth, and the winged creatures of the heaven for solid food and corruption.
JER 15:4 And I will deliver them up for distresses to all the kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for all which he did in Jerusalem.
JER 15:5 Who will spare over you, O Jerusalem? And who will show timidity against you? Or, who shall return to say, Peace to you?
JER 15:6 You turned from me, says the LORD; you shall go back. And I will stretch out my hand, and I shall utterly destroy you; and no longer shall I spare them.
JER 15:7 And I will scatter them in a dispersion in the gates of my people. They were made childless; they destroyed my people because of their evils.
JER 15:8 Their widows were multiplied above the sand of the sea; I brought young men against the mother - misery in midday. I cast upon her sudden trembling and anxiety.
JER 15:9 The one giving birth to seven was emptied - her soul suffered misfortune; her sun set even in the middle of the day; she was disgraced and berated. Of the ones remaining of them I will give to the sword before their enemies, says the LORD.
JER 15:10 Woe, O mother, as how you bore me a man adjudicating and litigating in all the earth. I derived not a benefit, nor did anyone benefit me. My strength failed among the ones cursing me.
JER 15:11 May it be, O LORD master, of their prospering in a time of their affliction for good against the enemy.
JER 15:12 Shall it be known that iron and a wrap-around garment of brass is your strength?
JER 15:13 And of your treasures I will give an equivalent, on account of all your sins, and in all your borders.
JER 15:14 I will reduce you to slavery round about your enemies, in the land which you knew not. For a fire has been kindled because of my rage - it shall be kindled against you.
JER 15:15 O LORD, remember me, and visit me, and acquit me from the ones pursuing me - not for leniency to them! Know how I took scorning on account of you,
JER 15:16 even by the ones disregarding your words! Finish them off entirely, and your word will be to me for gladness and joy of my heart! For your name has been called upon me, O LORD almighty.
JER 15:17 I sat not in their sanhedrin playing about, but I was cautious from in front of your hand. Alone I sat, for I was filled with bitterness.
JER 15:18 Why do the ones grieving me prevail over me? My wound is substantial, from where shall I be healed? In becoming, it became to me as false water, not having trust.
JER 15:19 Because of this, thus says the LORD, If you should return, and I should restore you, you shall stand before my face. And if you should lead out the esteemed from the unworthy, you will be as my mouth. And they shall return to you, and you shall not return to them.
JER 15:20 And I will appoint you to this people as a fortified wall of brass. And they shall wage war against you, but in no way shall they be able to prevail against you. For I am with you to deliver you, and to rescue you, says the LORD.
JER 15:21 And I will deliver you from the hand of wicked ones, and I will ransom you from the hand of pestilent ones.
JER 16:1 And the word of the LORD came to me saying,
JER 16:2 You should not take a wife, and there shall not be engendered to you a son nor daughter in this place.
JER 16:3 For thus says the LORD, Concerning the sons and the daughters of the ones being engendered in this place, and concerning their mothers giving them birth, and concerning their fathers engendering them in this land;
JER 16:4 by a diseased death they shall die; they shall not be lamented, and they shall not be entombed; for they will be an example upon the face of the earth. By the sword they shall fall, and in hunger they shall be finished off entirely. And their corpses shall be for food to the wild beasts of the earth, and to the winged creatures of the heaven.
JER 16:5 Thus says the LORD, You should not enter into their revelry, and you should not go in to lament, and you should not mourn them. For I have removed my peace from this people, says the LORD - mercy and charity.
JER 16:6 And great and small shall die in this land. They shall not be buried, and they shall not be lamented; they shall not beat their chest for them, nor shall they make cuts, and they shall not be shaven;
JER 16:7 and in no way should bread be broken in their mourning for consolation over one having died; they shall not give a drink for them of a cup for consolation over his father or his mother;
JER 16:8 into a residence of a banquet you shall not enter to sit down with them to eat and to drink.
JER 16:9 For thus says the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I depose from out of this place before your eyes, and in your days, a voice of joy, and a voice of gladness, a voice of a groom, and the voice of a bride.
JER 16:10 And it will be whenever you should announce to this people all these matters, then they shall say to you, Why did the LORD speak against us all these evils - what is our injustice, and what is our sin which we sinned before the LORD our God?
JER 16:11 And you shall say to them, Because your fathers abandoned me, says the LORD; and they set out after strange gods, and served to them, and did obeisance to them; and abandoned me, and kept not my law.
JER 16:12 And you were wicked above your fathers. And behold, you each go after the things pleasing your heart - the evils, to not obey me.
JER 16:13 And I will throw you away from this land, into a land which you knew not - you and your fathers. And you shall serve there strange gods day and night - the ones that shall not grant mercy to you.
JER 16:14 On account of this, behold, days come, says the LORD, and they shall not still say, As the LORD lives, the one leading up the sons of Israel from out of the land of Egypt.
JER 16:15 But they shall say, As the LORD lives, who led the house of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the places where they were pushed out there. And I shall restore them unto their land which I gave to their fathers.
JER 16:16 Behold, I send many fishermen, says the LORD, and they shall fish them. And after these I shall send many hunters, and they shall hunt them upon every mountain, and upon every hill, and from out of the holes of the rocks.
JER 16:17 For my eyes are upon all their ways, and their offences were not hid before my eyes.
JER 16:18 And I shall recompense double their iniquities, and their sins upon which they profaned my land by the decaying flesh of their abominations, and by their lawless deeds in which they filled my inheritance.
JER 16:19 O LORD, my strength, and my help, and my refuge in a day of evils. To you nations shall come from the ends of the earth, and shall say, O how false the idols our fathers acquired, and there is not a benefit in them.
JER 16:20 Shall a man make for himself gods, and these are not gods?
JER 16:21 On account of this, behold, I will make manifest to them my hand in this time; and I shall make known to them my power; and they shall know that my name is the LORD.
JER 17:1 Thus says the LORD. The sin of Judah is being written with an iron stylus with clawed adamantine being carved upon the tablet of their heart, and upon the horns of their shrines.
JER 17:2 even in the remembering of their sons of their shrines, and their sacred groves upon tree woods, upon the high hills.
JER 17:3 O mountain in the plain, of your wealth and all of you treasures I shall give for plunder; your heights for sin in all your boundaries.
JER 17:4 And you shall be forsaken from your inheritance which I gave to you. And I will make you to serve to your enemies in the land which you knew not. For you kindled fire in my wrath - unto the eon it shall blaze.
JER 17:5 Thus says the LORD, Cursed is the man who has hope upon man, and shall fix firmly the flesh of his arm, and should separate his heart from the LORD.
JER 17:6 And he will be as the tamarisk in the wilderness; he shall not see whenever good things come. But he shall encamp in salty lands, and in a wilderness, in a land brackish which is not dwelt.
JER 17:7 And being blessed is the man who relies upon the LORD, and the LORD will be his hope.
JER 17:8 And he shall be as a tree prospering by waters; and upon a moist place he shall shoot his roots; and he will not be fearful whenever sweltering heat comes, and there will be for him tree trunks of the woods. In the year of drought he shall not be fearful, and he shall not stop producing fruit.
JER 17:9 The heart is deep beyond all things, and man is - who shall know him?
JER 17:10 I the LORD am examining hearts, trying kidneys, to give to each according to his ways, and according to the fruits of their practices.
JER 17:11 The partridge speaks out loud, gathering together what she bore not. So the man having his riches not with equity - in the first half of his days his riches will leave him, and at the last half of his days he will be a foolish one.
JER 17:12 Our sanctuary is a throne of glory being raised up high from the beginning.
JER 17:13 The waiting of Israel, O LORD, all the ones forsaking you, let them be disgraced! Ones revolting, let them be written upon the ground! For they abandoned the spring of life - the LORD.
JER 17:14 Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed! Deliver me, and I shall be delivered! For you are my boasting.
JER 17:15 Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of the LORD? Let it come!
JER 17:16 But I tired not following closely after you; and the day of man I desired not. You have knowledge of the things having gone forth through my lips; it is before your face.
JER 17:17 You should not be to me for alienation; but one sparing me in the evil day.
JER 17:18 May the ones pursuing me be disgraced, and may I not be disgraced myself. May they be terrified, but may I not be terrified myself. Bring upon them the wicked day! In double destruction destroy them!
JER 17:19 Thus says the LORD to me, Proceed and stand in the gates of the sons of the people, by which kings of Judah enter, and by which they go forth by them, and in all the gates of Jerusalem!
JER 17:20 And you shall say to them, Hear the word of the LORD, O kings of Judah, and all Judea, and all Jerusalem, O ones entering by these gates!
JER 17:21 Thus says the LORD, Guard your souls, and do not lift burdens on the day of the sabbaths! And you should not carry in through the gates of Jerusalem.
JER 17:22 And do not bring forth burdens from out of your residences on the day of the sabbaths! And you shall not do any work - sanctify the day of the sabbaths, as I gave charge to your fathers!
JER 17:23 And they hearkened not, and leaned not their ear, and hardened their neck over their fathers to not hear me, and to not take instruction.
JER 17:24 And it will be, if you should hearken to me, says the LORD, to not carry in burdens through the gates of this city in the day of the sabbaths, and to sanctify the day of the sabbaths, to not do any work in it,
JER 17:25 that there shall enter through the gates of this city kings and rulers sitting upon the throne of David, and mounting upon their chariots and horses, they and their rulers, the men of Judah, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem. And this city shall be settled into the eon.
JER 17:26 And they shall come from out of the cities of Judah, and round about Jerusalem, and from out of the land of Benjamin, and from out of the plain, and from out of the mountain, and from out of the country to the south, bringing whole burnt offerings, and sacrifices, and incenses, and manna, and frankincense; bringing praise into the house of the LORD.
JER 17:27 And it will be if you should not hearken to me to sanctify the day of the sabbaths, of the not lifing burdens, and not entering through the gates of Jerusalem in the day of the sabbaths; then I will kindle a fire in her gates, and it shall devour the plazas of Jerusalem, and it shall not be extinguished.
JER 18:1 The word coming to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,
JER 18:2 Rise up and go down unto the house of the potter, and there you shall hear my words!
JER 18:3 And I went down unto the house of the potter. And behold, he was making a work upon the stones.
JER 18:4 And the vessel failed, which he was making with his hands. And again he made it into another vessel as was pleasing before him to make.
JER 18:5 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 18:6 Shall as this potter I not be able to make you, O house of Israel, says the LORD? Behold, as the mortar in the hand of the potter, so are you in my hands, O house of Israel.
JER 18:7 At end I shall speak unto a nation or unto a kingdom to lift them away, and to destroy them.
JER 18:8 But should that nation turn from their evils, then I shall change my mind concerning the bad things which I devised to do to them.
JER 18:9 And at end I shall speak unto a nation, and unto a kingdom to rebuild and to plant,
JER 18:10 and they do the wicked things before me, to not hear my voice, then I will change my mind concerning the good things which I spoke to do for them.
JER 18:11 And now say to the men of Judah, and to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem! Thus says the LORD, Behold, I shape against you bad things, and I devise against you a device! Let indeed each turn from his evil way, and make your practices good and your ways!
JER 18:12 And they said, We will be manly, for after our turning, we shall go and each do the things pleasing his evil heart.
JER 18:13 On account of this, Thus says the LORD, Ask indeed among the nations! Who heard such causes for shuddering which virgin Israel did exceedingly?
JER 18:14 Shall nipples fail from the rock, or snow from the Lebanon range? Will water being brought forcibly by a wind turn aside?
JER 18:15 For my people forgot me. They burned incense in vain, and they shall weaken in their ways - eternal roads; to mount roads not having a way for going;
JER 18:16 to order up their land for extinction, and the everlasting hissing. All the ones traveling through it shall be amazed, and shall shake their head.
JER 18:17 As a burning wind I will scatter them in front of their enemies. The back, and not the front, I will show to them in a day of their destruction.
JER 18:18 And they said, Come, we should devise against Jeremiah a device, for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the discerning, nor the word from the prophet. Come, for we should strike him in the tongue, and we shall not hear all his words.
JER 18:19 Hear me, O LORD, and hear the voice of my right action!
JER 18:20 Shall evils be recompensed for good things? For they conversed together things against my soul. Remember my standing in front of you, to speak good for them, to turn your rage from them!
JER 18:21 On account of this, give their sons to famine, and gather them into the hands of swords! Let their women become childless and widows, and let their men become men being done away with in death, and their young men falling by sword in war!
JER 18:22 Let there become a cry in their houses! You shall bring upon them robbers suddenly. For they took in hand a word to seize me, and they hid snares against me.
JER 18:23 And you, O LORD, knew all together their plan against me for death. You should not acquit their iniquities, and you should not wipe away their sins from in front of you. Let their weakness come before you! In the time of your rage deal with them!
JER 19:1 Then the LORD said to me, Proceed and acquire a pitcher being shaped of earthenware, from the elders of the people, and of the priests!
JER 19:2 And you shall go forth into the cemetery of the sons of Hinnom, which is at the thresholds of the gate of Charsith, and read there all the words, which ever I shall speak to you!
JER 19:3 And you shall say to them, Hear the word of the LORD, O kings of Judah, and O ones dwelling Jerusalem! Thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Behold, I bring upon this place evils, so that all hearing them - his ears shall resound.
JER 19:4 Because they abandoned me, and separated from this place; and they burned incense in it to strange gods, who they knew not and their fathers; and the kings of Judah filled this place of innocent blood.
JER 19:5 And they built high places to Baal, to incinerate their sons in fire, which I did not give charge nor spoke, and did not consider in my heart.
JER 19:6 On account of this, days come, says the LORD, and they shall not call this place still, Downfall, and Cemetery of the son of Hinnom, but Cemetery of the Slaughter.
JER 19:7 And I will slay the counsel of Judah, and the counsel of Jerusalem in this place; and I will throw them down by the sword before their enemies, and by the hands of the ones seeking their lives; and I will give their dead for food to the winged creatures of the heaven, and to the wild beasts of the earth.
JER 19:8 And I will order this city into extinction, and for a hissing. All coming upon it shall look downcast, and shall whistle over all its calamity.
JER 19:9 And they shall eat the flesh of their sons, and the flesh of their daughters; and each shall eat the flesh of his neighbor in the citadel, and in the assault in which their enemies shall assault them, and the ones seeking their life.
JER 19:10 And you shall break the pitcher before the eyes of the men going forth with you.
JER 19:11 And you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD, So I will break this people, and this city, as the earthenware container was broken, which is not able to be repaired again. And in Tophet they shall bury, for there is not a place to bury.
JER 19:12 Thus I will do, says the LORD, to this place, and to the ones dwelling in it, to yield up this city as the one having fallen into ruin.
JER 19:13 And the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, will be as a place having fallen into ruin because of the uncleannesses in all the houses in which they burned incense upon the roofs to all the military of the heaven, and offered libations to strange gods.
JER 19:14 And Jeremiah came from DownfallTophet., where the LORD sent him there to prophesy. And he stood in the courtyard of the house of the LORD, and said to all the people,
JER 19:15 Thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Behold, I bring upon this city, and upon all her cities, and upon her towns, all the evils which I spoke against her, for they hardened their neck to not listen to my commandments.
JER 20:1 And Pashur heard, (the son of Immer the priest; and this one was being ordained leader of the house of the LORD,) Jeremiah prophesying these words.
JER 20:2 And he struck him, and put him into the dungeon which was by the gate of the house of Benjamin, the upper, which was in the house of the LORD.
JER 20:3 And it came to pass in the next morning, and Pashur led out Jeremiah from the dungeon. And Jeremiah said to him, the LORD called not your name Pashur, but instead, Refugee.
JER 20:4 For thus says the LORD, Behold, I give you for displacement with all your friends. And they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall see it. And you and all Judah I will give into the hands of the king of Babylon, and they shall displace them, and shall cut them in pieces with swords.
JER 20:5 And I will put all the strength of this city, and all its toils, and all the treasures of the king of Judah into the hands of his enemies, and they shall lead them into Babylon.
JER 20:6 And you, and all the ones dwelling in your house shall go into captivity; and in Babylon you shall die, and there you shall be entombed, you and all your friends, to whom you prophesied lies to them.
JER 20:7 You deceived me, O LORD, and I was deceived. You held, and prevailed. I became for laughter. Every day I continue being sneered at.
JER 20:8 For I shall laugh with my bitter word, I will call upon rebellion and misery; for the word of the LORD became for scorning to me, and for taunting all day.
JER 20:9 And I said, in no way shall I name the name of the LORD, and in no way shall I speak yet in his name. And it became as a burning fire blazing in my bones; and I am weakened from all sides, and I am not able to bear up.
JER 20:10 For I heard the fault of many gathering together round about, saying, Rise up together against him! And, We should rise up together against him - all his men friends. Give heed to his thought! If he should be deceived, and we shall prevail against him, then we shall take our vengeance on him.
JER 20:11 But the LORD is with me as a strengthening warrior. On account of this they pursued, but were not able to comprehend. They were shamed exceedingly; for they comprehended not their dishonor, ones which through the eon will not be forgotten.
JER 20:12 O LORD, trying just things, perceiving the kidneys and hearts, may I behold the punishment by you on them. For to you I uncovered my pleas in defense.
JER 20:13 Sing to the LORD! Praise him! For he rescued the soul of the needy from out of the hand of the most substantial ones.
JER 20:14 Cursed is the day in which I was birthed in it, the day in which my mother gave birth to me - let it not be longed for!
JER 20:15 Cursed is the man announcing good news to my father, saying, There was birthed to you a male child -- they are making merry.
JER 20:16 Let that man be as the cities which the LORD eradicated in rage, and he repented not! Let him hear the cry in the morning, and the shout at midday!
JER 20:17 For he did not kill me in the womb of my mother, for my mother to be to me my burying-place, and the womb an everlasting conception.
JER 20:18 Why is this that I came forth from out of the womb to see toils and miseries; and my days continue in shame?
JER 21:1 The word coming from the LORD to Jeremiah, when king Zedekiah sent to him Pashur son of Melchiah, and Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest, saying,
JER 21:2 You ask the LORD for us! For the king of Babylon has set by us; shall the LORD do according to all his wonders, and the king shall go forth from us.
JER 21:3 And Jeremiah said to them, Thus you shall say to Zedekiah,
JER 21:4 Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, Behold, I turn back the weapons of warfare which are in your hands, and by which you wage war with them against the Chaldeans hemming you in who are outside the wall; and I will gather them into the midst of this city.
JER 21:5 And I shall wage war myself against you with a hand being stretched out, and with a fortified arm with rage and great anger.
JER 21:6 And I will strike all the ones dwelling in this city, men and the cattle. By a great death even they shall die.
JER 21:7 And after these things, thus says the LORD, I will deliver up Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people surviving in this city from death, and from famine, and from the sword, into the hands of their enemies seeking their lives. And they shall cut them in pieces by the mouth of the sword; I will not spare against them, and in no way shall I pity them.
JER 21:8 And you shall say to this people, Thus says the LORD, Behold, I put before your face the way of life, and the way of death.
JER 21:9 The one being settled in this city shall die by the sword and by famine; and the one going forth to join with the Chaldeans hemming you in, he shall live; and his life will be for spoils - he shall live.
JER 21:10 For I firmly fixed my face against this city for bad, and not for good, says the LORD. Into the hands of the king of Babylon it shall be delivered up, and he shall incinerate it by fire.
JER 21:11 O house of the king of Judah, hear the word of the LORD!
JER 21:12 O house of David, Thus says the LORD, Arbitrate judgment in the morning, and straighten out, and rescue the one being torn in pieces from the hand wronging him, so that my anger should not be lit as a fire, and it should be kindled, and there shall not be one extinguishing it!
JER 21:13 Behold, I am against you, O one dwelling the valley of Sor; the plain country of the ones saying, Who shall terrify us? Or who shall enter to our home?
JER 21:14 And I will look about upon you, and I will kindle a fire in her forest. And it shall devour all the things round about her.
JER 22:1 Thus says the LORD, Go, and go down to the house of the king of Judah! And you shall speak there this word.
JER 22:2 And you shall say, Hear the word of the LORD, O king of Judah, O one sitting down upon the throne of David, you and your servants, and your people, and the ones entering by these gates!
JER 22:3 Thus says the LORD, Execute equity and righteousness, and rescue the one being plundered from out of the hand of the one wronging him! And the foreigner, and orphan, and widow, do not tyrannize! And do not be impious! And you should not pour out innocent blood in this place.
JER 22:4 For if doing you should do this word, then kings shall enter in the gates of this house sitting down upon the throne of David, and mounting upon chariots, and horses, they and their children, and their people.
JER 22:5 But if you should not do these words, according to myself I swear by an oath, says the LORD, that this house will be for desolation.
JER 22:6 For thus says the LORD against the house of the king of Judah, You are Gilead to me, head of Lebanon. Should I not make you desolate cities not being dwelt in?
JER 22:7 And I will bring upon you an annihilating man, and his hewing axe. And they shall cut down your chosen cedars, and shall put them into the fire.
JER 22:8 And many nations shall go through this city. And they shall say each to his neighbor, Why did the LORD do thus to this great city?
JER 22:9 And they shall say, Because they abandoned the covenant of the LORD their God, and did obeisance to strange gods, and served to them.
JER 22:10 Do not weep for the one having died, nor lament him! Weep by weeping for the one going forth! for he shall not return again, nor shall he see the land of his fatherland.
JER 22:11 For thus says the LORD against Shallum, son of Josiah king of Judea, who reigned for Josiah his father, who came forth from out of this place, He shall not return there again.
JER 22:12 But in the place where I displaced him, there he shall die, and this land he shall not see again.
JER 22:13 O the one building his house not with righteousness, and his rooms not in equity; for to him the neighbor works without pay, and his wage in no way shall he give over to him.
JER 22:14 You built to yourself a house well-proportioned, with upper rooms ventilated, separated by windows, and being boarded by cedar, and being coated in vermilion.
JER 22:15 Should you reign because you are provoked with Ahaz your father? Shall they not eat, and shall they not drink? It is best for you to execute equity and fair righteousness.
JER 22:16 They knew not; they judged not with equity to the humble, nor with equity to the needy. Is this not because of your not knowing me, says the LORD?
JER 22:17 Behold, your eyes are not nor is your heart good. But they are for your desire for wealth, and for the pouring out innocent blood, and for offences, and for murder, to do them.
JER 22:18 On account of this, thus says the LORD against Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, Woe against this man. In no way should they lament him, saying, O brother. Nor shall they weep over him, saying, Alas, O lord.
JER 22:19 As the burial of a donkey he shall be buried; being scraped away he shall be tossed beyond the gate of Jerusalem.
JER 22:20 Ascend unto Lebanon, and cry out! And give out your voice unto Bashan, and yell unto the end of the sea! For all your lovers were defeated.
JER 22:21 I spoke to you in your transgression, and you said, I will not hearken. This is your way from your youth - you hearkened not to my voice.
JER 22:22 All your shepherds shall tend the wind, and your lovers shall go forth into captivity; for then you shall be ashamed, and shall be disgraced because of all the ones being fond of you.
JER 22:23 O one dwelling in Lebanon, nesting among the cedars, you shall groan in the griefs coming to you - pangs as one giving birth.
JER 22:24 As I live, says the LORD, Though in coming to pass Coniah son of Jehoiakim king of Judah should become a seal upon my right hand, from there will I pull you out.
JER 22:25 And I will deliver you up into the hands of the ones seeking your life, whom you are cautious from in front of them, even into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and into the hands of the Chaldeans.
JER 22:26 And I will throw you and your mother, the one giving birth to you, into a land of which you were not birthed there; and there you shall die.
JER 22:27 And unto the land which they made a vow in their souls, there in no way shall they return.
JER 22:28 Coniah is disgraced as a vessel of which there is not need of it; for he was cast forth, and cast into a land which he knew not.
JER 22:29 O land, O land, hear the word of the LORD!
JER 22:30 Thus says the LORD, Write up this man as a man banished by public proclamation! For in no way should there be anything grown from out of his seed - a man sitting down upon the throne of David, ruling again in Judah.
JER 23:1 O the shepherds scattering and destroying the sheep of my pasture.
JER 23:2 On account of this, thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, against the shepherds tending my people; You scattered my sheep, and pushed them out, and did not visit them. Behold, I shall take vengeance upon you, against your wicked practices.
JER 23:3 And I will take in the ones remaining of my people upon all the earth of which place I pushed them there; and I shall place them into their pasture, and they shall grow and be multiplied.
JER 23:4 And I shall raise up to them shepherds tending them, and they shall not be fearful any more, nor shall they be terrified, nor shall they be seeking after, says the LORD.
JER 23:5 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and I will raise up to David a just dawn; and a king shall reign, and shall perceive, and shall execute equity and righteousness upon the earth.
JER 23:6 In his days Judah shall be delivered, and Israel shall encamp complying. And this is his name, which the LORD shall call him - Josedek.
JER 23:7 On account of this, behold, days come, says the LORD, and they will not say any longer, As the LORD lives, who led the house of Israel from out of the land of Egypt.
JER 23:8 But as the LORD lives, who led up and gathered all together the seed of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the places of which they were pushed there, and restored them unto their land.
JER 23:9 In the prophets my heart was broken; in me all my bones were shaken; I became as a man being broken, and as a man constrained by wine, from the countenance of the LORD, and from the countenance of the beauty of his glory.
JER 23:10 For the land is full of adulterers. For from the countenance of these things the land mourned; the pastures of the wilderness were dried up; and their race became wicked, and their strength not thus.
JER 23:11 For priest and prophet were tainted; and in my house I saw their wickedness, says the LORD.
JER 23:12 On account of this, let their way become to them for a slip in dimness! And they shall be tripped up, and shall fall in it. For I shall bring upon them bad things in the year of their visitation, says the LORD.
JER 23:13 And among the prophets of Samaria, I beheld violations of laws - they prophesied by Baal, and they misled my people Israel.
JER 23:14 And among the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen causes for shuddering - committing adultery, and going by lies, and taking hold of hands of wicked ones, for each to not be turned from his wicked way. They all became to me as Sodom, and the ones dwelling in it as Gomorrah.
JER 23:15 On account of this, thus says the LORD of the forces to the prophets; Behold, I will feed them grief, and I shall give them to drink bitter water; for from the prophets of Jerusalem contamination came forth to all the land.
JER 23:16 Thus says the LORD the almighty, Do not hearken to the words of the prophets prophesying to you! For they frame in folly a vision for themselves. From their heart they speak, and not from the mouth of the LORD.
JER 23:17 They say to the ones thrusting away the word of the LORD, Peace will be to you; and to all the ones going by their wants, and to all going in a delusion of his heart, Evils shall not come upon you.
JER 23:18 For who stood in the garrison of the LORD, and beheld and heard his word? Who gave ear and heard?
JER 23:19 Behold, a quaking by the LORD, and anger shall go forth in a rumbling. It shall come contracting upon the impious ones.
JER 23:20 And the rage of the LORD shall not turn away until whenever he should execute it, and until whenever he should establish it according to the enterprise of his heart. At the last of the days they shall comprehend them.
JER 23:21 I sent not the false prophets, yet they ran. I spoke not to them, and they prophesied.
JER 23:22 And if they stood with my support, and they hearkened to my words, then my people would have turned from their wicked practices.
JER 23:23 I am a God being near, says the LORD, and not a God at a distance.
JER 23:24 Shall any be hid in secret, and I not see him, says the LORD. Is it not that I shall fill the heaven and the earth, says the LORD?
JER 23:25 I heard what the prophets speak who prophesy lies by my name, saying, I dreamed a dream.
JER 23:26 For how long shall it be in the heart of the prophets prophesying lies, and in their prophesying the wants of their heart?
JER 23:27 The ones devising ways to forget my name by their dreams, which each was described to his neighbor; as their fathers forgot my name in service to Baal.
JER 23:28 The prophet by which the dream is, let him describe his dream! And the one by which my word is truly with him, let him describe my word in truth! What is the straw to the grain? Thus are my words, says the LORD.
JER 23:29 Are not my words as fire blazing, says the LORD? And as a hewing axe beating the rock?
JER 23:30 Behold, I am against the prophets, says the LORD God, the ones stealing my words each from his neighbor.
JER 23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets, says the LORD, the ones casting out prophecies of the tongue, and slumbering of their own slumber.
JER 23:32 Behold, I am against the prophets prophesying false dreams, and of whom described them, and misled my people by their lies, and in their delusions; and I sent them not, and I gave charge not to them, and they derived not a benefit for this people, says the LORD.
JER 23:33 And if this people should ask you, or priest, or prophet, saying, What is the concern of the LORD? then you shall say to them, You are the concern, and I will dash you down, says the LORD,
JER 23:34 and the prophet, and the priest, and the people, who should say, The concern of the LORD. And I will punish that man, and his house.
JER 23:35 Thus you shall say each to his neighbor, and each to his brother, What did the LORD answer? And what did the LORD speak?
JER 23:36 And the concern of the LORD name not again! For the concern to the man will be his word. And you distorted the words of the living God.
JER 23:37 Thus you shall say to the prophet, What spoke the LORD our God?
JER 23:38 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Because you said this word, The concern of the LORD, that I sent to you, saying, You shall not say, The concern of the LORD.
JER 23:39 On account of this, behold, I will take and dash you down, and the city which I have given to you and to your fathers.
JER 23:40 And I shall put upon you eternal scorn and eternal dishonor, which shall not be forgotten.
JER 24:1 The LORD showed to me two reed baskets of figs being situated in front of the temple of the LORD, after Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon resettled Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, and the rulers, and the craftsmen, and the bondmen, from out of Jerusalem, and led them into Babylon.
JER 24:2 The one reed basket was of exceedingly better figs as the early figs; and the other reed basket was of exceedingly bad figs which shall not be eaten, because of their badness.
JER 24:3 And the LORD said to me, What do you see, Jeremiah? And I said, Figs; the better figs are exceedingly better; and the bad ones, exceedingly bad, which shall not be eaten because of their badness.
JER 24:4 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 24:5 Thus says the LORD God of Israel, As these better figs, so shall I recognize the Jews being resettled whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for good.
JER 24:6 And I shall firmly fix my eyes upon them for good, and I shall restore them into this land. And I will rebuild them, and in no way demolish; and I will plant them, and in no way will I pluck them up.
JER 24:7 And I will give them a heart for them to know me, that I am the LORD. And they will be to me for a people, and I will be to them for God. For they shall turn towards me with their entire heart.
JER 24:8 And as the bad figs which shall not be eaten because of their badness, thus says the LORD, So will I deliver up Zedekiah king of Judah, and his great men, and the rest of Jerusalem being left behind in this land, and the ones dwelling in Egypt.
JER 24:9 And I will appoint them for being dispersed into all the kingdoms of the earth, and they will be for scorning, and for a parable, and for hatred, and for a curse in every place where I shall push them there.
JER 24:10 And I will send against them the famine, and the plague, and the sword, until whenever they should fail from the land which I gave to them, and to their fathers.
JER 25:1 The word coming to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah; it was the first year to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon;
JER 25:2 which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah, and to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, saying,
JER 25:3 In the thirteenth year of Josiah, son of Amon, king of Judah, and until this day, for twenty and three years, that the word of the LORD came to me, and I spoke to you rising early and speaking; and you listened not.
JER 25:4 And I sent to you my servants the prophets, sending them at dawn, (and you listened not, and took heed not with your ears,)
JER 25:5 saying, Turn indeed each from his wicked way, and from your wicked practices, and you shall dwell upon the land which I gave to you and to your fathers from the eon and unto the eon!
JER 25:6 Go not after strange gods to serve them, and to do obeisance to them! so that you should not provoke me to anger by the works of your hands, so as for me to afflict you.
JER 25:7 And you hearkened not to me.
JER 25:8 On account of this, thus says the LORD; Since you trusted not my words,
JER 25:9 behold, I send, and shall take the family of the north, and will lead them upon this land, and against the ones dwelling it, and against all the nations round about it. And I will make them quite desolate. And I will appoint them for extinction, and for hissing, and for everlasting scorn.
JER 25:10 And I will destroy from them the voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the groom, and the voice of the bride, the scent of perfumed liquid, and the light of a lamp.
JER 25:11 And all the land will be for extinction, and these nations shall serve to the king of Babylon seventy years.
JER 25:12 And in the fulfilling the seventy years, I will take vengeance upon the king of Babylon, and upon that nation of their unrighteousness, says the LORD, and upon the land of the Caldeans. And I will appoint them for everlasting extinction.
JER 25:13 And I will bring upon that land all my words which I spoke against it, all the things being written in this scroll;
JER 25:14 as many things as Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations, for they laid service against them when they were many nations and great kings. And I will recompense to them according to their works, according to the actions of their hands.
JER 25:15 Thus said the LORD God of Israel, Take the cup of this undiluted wine from out of my hand, and you shall give to drink all the nations to whom I send you unto them!
JER 25:16 And they shall drink, and vomit forth, and shall be driven mad from in front of the sword of which I shall send in the midst of them.
JER 25:17 And I took the cup from out of the hand of the LORD, and I gave to drink all the nations to whom the LORD sent me unto them;
JER 25:18 Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and the king of Judah, and his rulers - to appoint them for desolation, and for an untrodden land, and for a hissing, and for a curse as this day;
JER 25:19 even Pharoah king of Egypt, and his children, and his great men, and all his people,
JER 25:20 and all his consolidations, and all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Gaza, and Ekron, and the remaining of Ashdod,
JER 25:21 and Edom, and Moab, and the sons of Ammon,
JER 25:22 and all the kings of Tyre, and the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the ones on the other side of the sea,
JER 25:23 and Dedan and Tema, and Buz, and all being shaven around his face,
JER 25:24 and all the kings of Arabia, and all the consolidations of the ones resting up in the wilderness,
JER 25:25 and all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes,
JER 25:26 and all the kings from the east wind at a distance, and of the ones near, each with his brother, and all the kingdoms upon the face of the earth; and the king of Sheshach shall drink with them.
JER 25:27 And you shall say to them, thus said the LORD almighty; Drink, be intoxicated, and vomit forth, and fall, and in no way rise up from in front of the sword of which I send in the midst of you!
JER 25:28 And it will be whenever they should not want to take the cup from out of your hand so as to drink, then you shall say, Thus said the LORD of the forces; By drinking you shall drink.
JER 25:29 For in the city upon which my name is named by it, I begin to afflict. And you by cleansing in no way shall be cleansed, for I shall call a sword upon all the ones settling down upon the earth, says the LORD of the forces.
JER 25:30 And you shall prophesy against them all these words, and shall say, The LORD from on high shall execute from his holy place. He shall give his voice; he will execute a word against his place; and thus as ones gathering vintage shall be answered, and against the ones settling upon the earth shall come ruin,
JER 25:31 upon a part of the earth. For judgment is by the LORD among the nations; he himself pleads to all flesh; but the impious ones shall be given to the sword, says the LORD.
JER 25:32 Thus said the LORD of the forces, Behold, evils come from nation upon nation, and a great tempest goes forth from end of the earth.
JER 25:33 And there will be slain by the LORD in that day from a part of the earth, even unto into a part of the earth; in no way shall they be lamented, and in no way shall they be gathered, and in no way shall they be buried, for they will be dung upon the face of the earth.
JER 25:34 Shout, O shepherds, and cry out! And beat the chest, O rams of the flocks! For your days were filled for slaughter, and you shall fall as the choice rams.
JER 25:35 And flight shall perish from the shepherds, and safety shall flee from the rams of the flocks.
JER 25:36 A sound of a cry of the shepherds, and a shout of the rams, for the LORD annihilated their pastures.
JER 25:37 And the rest places of peace shall cease from the face of the anger of the rage of the LORD.
JER 25:38 He abandoned his lodging as a lion, for their land became an untrodden place from in front of the great sword.
JER 26:1 In the beginning of the reign of king Jehoiakim son of Josiah came this word from the LORD.
JER 26:2 Thus said the LORD; Stand in the courtyard of the house of the LORD! And you shall execute an order to all Judah coming to do obeisance in the house of the LORD, all the words which I ordered to you to execute to them - you should not remove a thing.
JER 26:3 Perhaps they shall hear, and shall be turned each from his evil way, and I will cease from the bad things which I devise to do to them because of their evil practices.
JER 26:4 And you shall say, Thus said the LORD, If you should not hearken to me to go by my laws which I put before your face,
JER 26:5 to listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I sent to you at dawn, (for I sent, and you hearkened not to me;)
JER 26:6 then I will appoint this house as Shiloh; and this city I will appoint for a curse to all the nations of the earth.
JER 26:7 And they heard, (the priests, and the false prophets, and all the people,) Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the LORD.
JER 26:8 And it came to pass of Jeremiah ceasing speaking all which the LORD ordered to him to say to all the people, that they seized him - the priests, and the false prophets, and all the people, saying, To death he shall die;
JER 26:9 for you prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, This house will be as Shiloh, and this city shall be made desolate of ones dwelling it. And all the people held an assembly against Jeremiah in the house of the LORD.
JER 26:10 And the rulers of Judah heard these words, and ascended from out of the house of the king unto the house of the LORD, and sat in the thresholds of the new gate of the LORD.
JER 26:11 And the priests and the false prophets said to the rulers, and to all the people, A judgment of death belongs to this man, for he prophesied against this city, as you heard with your ears.
JER 26:12 And Jeremiah said to all the rulers, and to all the people, saying, The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words which you heard.
JER 26:13 And now, you make your ways better, and your works; and hearken to the voice of the LORD your God, and the LORD will cease from the evils which he spoke against you!
JER 26:14 And behold, I am in your hands. Do to me as is advantageous to you, and as best for you!
JER 26:15 But only in knowing know! that if you do away with me, you have imputed innocent blood against you, and against this city, and against the ones dwelling in it. For in truth the LORD has sent me to you to speak into your ears all these words.
JER 26:16 And the rulers and all the people said to the priests and to the false prophets; There is not due to this man a judgment of death, for upon the name of the LORD our God he spoke to us.
JER 26:17 And there rose up men of the elders of the land, and spoke to all the gathering of people, saying,
JER 26:18 Micah the Morasthite was a prophet in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and he spoke to all the people of Judah, saying, Thus said the LORD of the forces; Zion shall be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem will be for a vacant storehouse of fruits, and the mountain of the house shall be turned into a sacred grove.
JER 26:19 Did, by doing away, Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah do away with him? Was it not they feared the LORD, and they beseeched in front of the LORD, and the LORD ceased from the evils which he spoke against them? And we did great evils against our souls.
JER 26:20 And there was another man prophesying in the name of the LORD, Urijah son of Shemaiah from Kirjath-jearim; and he prophesied concerning this city, and concerning this land according to all the words of Jeremiah.
JER 26:21 And king Jehoiakim and all the rulers heard all his words, and sought to kill him. And Urijah heard, and feared, and fled, and entered into Egypt.
JER 26:22 And the king sent men into Egypt, Elnathan son of Achbor, and men with him into Egypt.
JER 26:23 And they led him from there, and brought him to the king; and he struck him by the sword, and tossed him into the tomb of the sons of his people.
JER 26:24 Only the hand of Ahikam son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, so as to not deliver him into the hands of the people so as to not do away with him.
JER 27:1 In the beginning of the kingdom of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah came to pass this word to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,
JER 27:2 Thus said the LORD, Make to yourself bonds and collars, and put them around your neck!
JER 27:3 And you shall send them to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab, and to the king of the sons of Ammon, and to the king of Tyre, and to the king of Sidon, by the hands of their messengers coming in Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah.
JER 27:4 And you shall order them to say to their lords, Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Thus you shall say to your lords,
JER 27:5 I made the earth, and the men, and the cattle upon the face of the earth, by my great strength and by my high arm, and I shall give it to whom ever it seems fit in my eyes.
JER 27:6 And now I gave all the earth to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to serve to him, and the wild beasts of the field to work for him,
JER 27:7 and to his son, and to the son of his son, unto the coming time of his land, and also of him. And many nations shall serve to him, and great kings.
JER 27:8 And the nation, and the kingdom, as many as should not serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and as many as should not put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, by the sword, and by pestilence, and by famine I shall visit them, said the LORD, until they should falter by his hand.
JER 27:9 And you, hearken not to your false prophets, and of the ones using oracles for you, and of the ones dreaming to you, and of the ones of your omens, and of the ones of your administers of potions! saying, In no way should you work for the king of Babylon.
JER 27:10 For they prophesy a lie to you, to distance you from your land, and that I should cast you out, and you shall perish.
JER 27:11 And the nation which ever should bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and should work for him, I will leave it upon its land, says the LORD; and it shall work her, and it will dwell in her.
JER 27:12 And to Zedekiah king of Judah I spoke according to all these words, saying, Bring your neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon,
JER 27:13 and work for him and for his people, and you shall live! Why should you die and your people by sword, and by famine, and by pestilence, as the LORD spoke against a nation, which served not to the king of Babylon?
JER 27:14 You should not hearken to the words of the prophets saying to you, You should not serve to the king of Babylon; for unjustly they prophesy to you.
JER 27:15 I sent them not, says the LORD, and they prophesy in my name unjustly, for the destroying you. And you shall perish, and your prophets prophesying to you by an unjust lie.
JER 27:16 And to the priests and to all this people I spoke, saying, Thus said the LORD; Do not hearken to the words of the prophets prophesying to you! saying, Behold, the items of the house of the LORD shall return from out of Babylon now quickly. For they prophesy unjustly to you.
JER 27:17 Do not hearken to them; but serve to the king of Babylon, and you should live! Why shall it be to her - the city for desolation?
JER 27:18 If they are prophets, and if the word of the LORD is in them, let them meet me, that they should not carry in the vessels being left behind in the house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem, into Babylon.
JER 27:19 For thus said the LORD concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and for the remaining items being left behind in this city,
JER 27:20 which the king of Babylon took not when he resettled Jeconiah son of Jehoiakim king of Judah from out of Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the rulers of Judah and Jerusalem;
JER 27:21 for thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels being left behind in the house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of Judah, and Jerusalem;
JER 27:22 They shall enter into Babylon, and there they shall be until the day of their visitation; and I will lead them, and I will return them into this place.
JER 28:1 And it came to pass in the fourth year of the reigning of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fifth month, Hananiah said to me (son of Azur the false prophet, the one from Gibeon) in the house of the LORD, in front of the eyes of the priests and all the people, saying,
JER 28:2 Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, I broke the yoke of the king of Babylon.
JER 28:3 Yet in two years of days I will return unto this place all the items of the house of the LORD,
JER 28:4 and Jeconiah, and the resettlement of Judah; for I shall break the yoke of the king of Babylon.
JER 28:5 And Jeremiah the prophet said to Hananiah before the eyes of the priests, and before the eyes of all the people standing in the house of the LORD;
JER 28:6 and Jeremiah said, Truly, thus may the LORD do, the LORD establish your word which you prophesy to return the items of the house of the LORD, and all the resettlement from out of Babylon to this place.
JER 28:7 Only hear this word which I say into your ears, and into the ears of all the people.
JER 28:8 The prophets being prior to me, and prior to you from the eon, and prophesied against much land, and over great kingdoms concerning war, and concerning affliction, and concerning pestilence.
JER 28:9 The prophet prophesying for peace, in the coming to pass of the word, they shall know the prophet whom the LORD sent to them in trust.
JER 28:10 And Hananiah took the collars from the neck of Jeremiah, and he broke them.
JER 28:11 And Hananiah said before the eyes of all the people, saying, Thus said the LORD, Thus I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon in two years of days from the necks of all the nations. And Jeremiah set out unto his way.
JER 28:12 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah after Hananiah broke the collars from his neck, saying,
JER 28:13 Proceed and say to Hananiah! saying, Thus said the LORD, You broke wooden collars; but I will make instead of these, collars of iron.
JER 28:14 For thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; A yoke of iron I have put upon the neck of all the nations to work for the king of Babylon, to serve to him. And indeed the cattle of the land I gave to him.
JER 28:15 And Jeremiah said to Hananiah, Hear, O Hananiah! The LORD sent you not, and you made this people to rely upon wrongdoing.
JER 28:16 On account of this, Thus said the LORD, Behold, I send you out from the face of the land. In this year you shall die, for you spoke against the LORD.
JER 28:17 And he died in the seventh month.
JER 29:1 And these are the words of the book which Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the elders of the resettlement, and to the priests, and to the false prophets, and to all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar resettled from Jerusalem unto Babylon,
JER 29:2 (after the coming forth of Jeconiah the king, and the queen, and the eunuchs, and every free man, and bondman, and craftsman from out of Jerusalem;)
JER 29:3 by the hand of Elasah son of Shaphan, and Gemariah son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Babylon into Babylon, saying,
JER 29:4 Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, unto the resettlement, which he resettled from Jerusalem to Babylon;
JER 29:5 Build houses, and dwell; and plant gardens, and eat of their fruits!
JER 29:6 And take wives, and produce children, sons and daughters! And take for your sons wives, and for your daughters give husbands! And they shall bear sons and daughters, and they shall be multiplied, and shall not be diminished.
JER 29:7 And seek for peace of the land into which I resettled you there! And pray for them to the LORD! For in their peace there will be peace to you.
JER 29:8 For thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Let not the false prophets among you dissuade you! And let not your clairvoyants dissuade you! And hearken not to your dreams which you dream!
JER 29:9 For by wrongdoing they prophesy to you in my name; and I sent them not, says the LORD.
JER 29:10 For thus said the LORD, Whenever seventy years is about to be filled in Babylon, I will visit you, and I will set my words upon you, to return your people unto this place.
JER 29:11 And I will devise for you a device of peace, and not evils, to give to you these things.
JER 29:12 And pray to me, and I will hearken to you!
JER 29:13 And seek after me, and you shall find me! For whenever you should seek after me with your entire heart,
JER 29:14 then I shall appear unto you.
JER 29:15 For you said, The LORD placed prophets to us in Babylon.
JER 29:16 Thus says the LORD to the king sitting upon the throne of David, and to all the people dwelling in this city, and to your brothers not going forth with you into captivity,
JER 29:17 Thus says the LORD of the forces, Behold, I shall send to them a sword, and famine, and pestilence. And I shall establish them as a bad fig which one shall not be able to eat because of the badness.
JER 29:18 And I shall pursue them with a sword, and famine, and pestilence. And I shall give them for movement in all the kingdoms of the earth, and for a curse, and for perplexity, and for a hissing, and for scorning to all the nations to whom I cast them.
JER 29:19 For they hearkened not to my words, says the LORD, which I sent to them through my servants the prophets, rising early and sending - and they hearkened not, says the LORD.
JER 29:20 You then hearken to the words of the LORD - even all the displacement which I sent from Jerusalem into Babylon!
JER 29:21 Thus said the LORD against Ahab son of Kolaiah, and against Zedekiah son of Maaseiah, the ones prophesying to you falsely in my name. Behold, I give them into the hands of the king of Babylon. And he shall strike them before your eyes.
JER 29:22 And they shall take from them a curse in all the resettlement of Judah in Babylon, saying, Let the LORD do to you as he did to Zedekiah, and as Ahab, whom the king of Babylon fried in fire!
JER 29:23 Because of the lawlessness which they did in Jerusalem, and they committed adultery with the women of their fellow-countrymen, and they executed a word by my name which I ordered not to them; and I am witness, says the LORD.
JER 29:24 And to Shemaiah the Nehelamite you shall say,
JER 29:25 I did not send you in my name. And to Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest he said,
JER 29:26 The LORD appointed you priest instead of Jehoiada the priest, to become supervisor in the house of the LORD to every man prophesying, and to every man being maniacal, and you shall put him in the prison, and in the dungeon.
JER 29:27 And now, why did you not join in reviling Jeremiah, the one from Anathoth, the one prophesying to you?
JER 29:28 For on account of this, he sent to us in Babylon, saying, Freedom is far off - build houses, and inhabit them, and plant gardens, and eat their fruit!
JER 29:29 And Zephaniah read the scroll into the ears of Jeremiah the prophet.
JER 29:30 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 29:31 Send to all the resettlement, saying, Thus said the LORD against Shemaiah the Nehelamite, Since Shemaiah prophesied to you, and I sent him not, and he made you rely upon wrongdoing;
JER 29:32 on account of this, thus said the LORD; Behold, I shall visit against Shemaiah, and against his kind; and there will not be to him a man in the midst of you to behold the good things which I shall do to you, says the LORD; for he spoke defection against the LORD.
JER 30:1 The word coming to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,
JER 30:2 Thus said the LORD God of Israel, saying, Write all the words which I executed to you upon a scroll!
JER 30:3 For behold, days come, says the LORD, and I will return the resettlement of my people Israel and Judah, said the LORD. And I will return them into the land which I gave to their fathers, and they will dominate it.
JER 30:4 And these are the words which the LORD spoke unto Israel and Judah.
JER 30:5 Thus said the LORD; The sound of fear you shall hear - fear, and there is not peace.
JER 30:6 Ask, and see if a man gave birth! For I have seen every man, and his hands are upon his loin, as her giving birth, and their faces are turned to jaundice.
JER 30:7 Woe, for great is that day, and there is not such, and it is a time of severity to Jacob - but from this he shall be delivered.
JER 30:8 In that day, said the LORD of the forces, I will break the yoke from their neck, and their bonds I will tear up, and they shall not work themselves any longer for strangers.
JER 30:9 And they shall work to the LORD their God; and I will raise up David their king to them.
JER 30:10 But you, do not fear, O my servant Jacob! says the LORD; and in now way should you be terrified, O Israel. For behold, I shall deliver you from a land far off, and your seed from a land of their captivity. And Jacob shall be returned, and shall rest, and shall abound in all the good things, and there shall not be one fearing.
JER 30:11 For I am with you, says the LORD, to deliver you. For I shall appoint a consumation in all the nations in which I scattered you, but you in no way will I appoint for consumation. But I shall correct you with equity, and a cleansing of which I shall cleanse you.
JER 30:12 Thus said the LORD, I raised up destruction; your calamity is painful;
JER 30:13 there is not one judging your case; you were treated medically for a painful state; there is not a benefit to you;
JER 30:14 all your friends forgot you; in no way shall they ask, for I smote you with a beating by the enemy, even substantial discipline; your sins multiplied over all your iniquities.
JER 30:15 Why yell over your destruction? Your misery is incurable. On account of the magnitude of your iniquity, and on account of your recalcitrant sins I did to you these things.
JER 30:16 On account of this all the ones devouring you shall be eaten, and all your enemies shall come into captivity. And the ones dispersing you will be for dispersion, and all the ones having despoiled you I shall give for plunder.
JER 30:17 For I will lead up your cure; I will treat you from a grievous wound, says the LORD, For you are called Her Having Been Sown - Zion, for there is not a seeking her.
JER 30:18 Thus said the LORD; Behold, I shall return the resettlement of Jacob, and his captivity I will show mercy; and the city shall be built upon her height, and the people shall sit according to his equity.
JER 30:19 And there shall come forth from them ones singing, and a sound of ones playing. And I shall make them superabundant, and in no way shall they be made less.
JER 30:20 And his sons shall enter as formerly, and their testimonies are in front of me straight up. And I shall visit upon all the ones afflicting them.
JER 30:21 And his stronger ones will be over them, and his ruler shall come forth from him. And I will bring them together, and they shall return to me. For who is this who gave his heart to return to me, says the LORD?
JER 30:22 And you shall be to me for a people, and I shall be to you for Lord.
JER 30:23 For the anger of the LORD went forth - rage went forth; turning anger shall come upon the impious ones.
JER 30:24 In no way shall the anger of the rage of the LORD turn until he should execute, and until he should ordain the enterprise of his heart. Upon the last of the days you shall know them.
JER 31:1 In that time, said the LORD, I will be for a God to the race of Israel, and they will be to me for a people.
JER 31:2 Thus said the LORD, They found it hot in the wilderness with ones being destroyed by sword. Proceed, and you should not destroy Israel!
JER 31:3 The LORD shall be seen at a distance by him, saying, With an everlasting affection I loved you; on account of this I drew you for pitying.
JER 31:4 For I will build you, and you shall be built, O virgin Israel. You shall still take your tambourine, and go forth with a congregation playing.
JER 31:5 For you planted vineyards on the mountains of Samaria. In planting plant, and in praising praise!
JER 31:6 For it is a day of calling, of ones pleading on the mountains of Ephraim, saying, Rise up, and ascend in Zion to the LORD your God!
JER 31:7 For thus said the LORD to Jacob, Be glad and snort over the head of nations! Do it audibly, and praise! Say, The LORD delivered his people, the remnant of Israel!
JER 31:8 Behold, I lead them from the north, and I will gather them from the ends of the earth, in a holiday passover. And you shall produce children, a great multitude, and they shall return here.
JER 31:9 In weeping they went forth, and in comfort I will lead them. Lodging upon aqueducts of waters in the straight way, and in no way shall they wander in it. For I became to Israel for a father, and Ephraim is my first-born.
JER 31:10 Hear the words of the LORD, O nations, and announce unto islands far off! Say! The one winnowing Israel will gather him, and he shall guard him as the one grazing his flock.
JER 31:11 For the LORD ransomed Jacob, and he rescued him from out of the hand of ones more substantial than he.
JER 31:12 And they shall come and shall be glad in mount Zion. And they shall come upon the good things of the LORD, upon a land of grain, and wine, and olive oil, and fruits, and cattle, and sheep. And their soul shall be as a tree containing fruit. And they shall not hunger any longer.
JER 31:13 Then virgins shall rejoice in a gathering of young men; and old men shall rejoice. And I will turn their mourning into joyfulness, and I will comfort them, and will make them ones being glad.
JER 31:14 I will magnify and intoxicate the soul of the priests, sons of Levi. And my people shall be filled up of my good things. Thus said the LORD.
JER 31:15 A voice in Ramah was heard - wailing, and weeping, and grieving; Rachel weeping for her sons, and she did not want to be comforted, for they are not.
JER 31:16 Thus said the LORD, Stop your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a wage for your works, says the LORD; and they shall return from out of the land of the enemies;
JER 31:17 And there shall be hope to the last of you, says the LORD. And the sons shall return to their borders.
JER 31:18 In hearing I heard Ephraim grieving, saying, You corrected me, and I was corrected. I, as a calf, was not taught. Turn me, and I will turn! For you are the LORD my God.
JER 31:19 For after my captivity, I changed my mind; and after my knowing, I moaned over the day of shame. And I showed you plainly that I took scorning of my youth.
JER 31:20 Ephraim is a beloved son to me, a child for reveling in, for because my words are in him; in remembering I will remember him; on account of this I hastened unto him; by showing mercy I shall show mercy on him, says the LORD.
JER 31:21 Establish to yourself overseers! Execute punishment! Give your heart to your shoulders in the way in which you were going! Return, O virgin Israel! Return unto your cities mourning!
JER 31:22 Until when will you return, O daughter being disgraced? For the LORD created safety for a new planting; in your safety men shall go about.
JER 31:23 Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Still they shall say this word in the land of Judah, and in his cities, whenever I shall return his resettlement; Being blessed is the LORD upon his holy just mountain -
JER 31:24 even the ones dwelling in the cities of Judah, and in all his land together with the farmer, and he shall be lifted with the flock.
JER 31:25 For I intoxicated the soul thirsting, and every soul hungering I filled up.
JER 31:26 On account of this I awoke, and beheld; and my sleep was agreeable to me.
JER 31:27 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and I shall sow Israel and Judah with the seed of man, and the seed of beast.
JER 31:28 And it will be as I was vigilant over them even to demolish and to inflict evil, so I will be vigilant over them to build, and to plant, says the LORD.
JER 31:29 In those days in no way shall they say, The fathers ate an unripe grape, and teeth of the children had tooth-chills.
JER 31:30 But each in his own sin shall die. And the one eating the unripe grape, their teeth shall have tooth-chills.
JER 31:31 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and I shall ordain to the house of Israel, and to the house of Judah, a new covenant.
JER 31:32 Not according to the covenant which I ordained with their fathers in the day in which I took hold of their hand to lead them from out of the land of Egypt; for they adhered not to my covenant, and I neglected them, says the LORD.
JER 31:33 For this is my covenant which I shall ordain with the house of Israel after those days, says the LORD; I will put my laws into their mind, and I will write them upon their hearts; and I will be to them for God, and they will be to me for a people.
JER 31:34 And in no way shall each teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the LORD! For all shall know me, from their small unto their great, says the LORD. For I will be kind to their iniquities, and their sins in no way shall I remember any more.
JER 31:35 Thus said the LORD, the one appointing the sun for light of the day, moon and stars for light of the night, and the roar in the sea, and its waves resonated; the LORD Almighty is his name.
JER 31:36 If these laws should cease from in front of me, says the LORD, then the race of Israel shall cease to become a nation in front of me all the days.
JER 31:37 Thus says the LORD, If the heaven should be raised up in elevation, and if the floor of the earth should be lowered below, yet I shall not reject the race of Israel, says the LORD, for all which they did.
JER 31:38 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and a city shall be built to the LORD from the tower of Hananeel unto the gate of the corner.
JER 31:39 And its measurement shall go forth before it unto the hills of Gareb, and shall be surrounded round about of choice stones,
JER 31:40 and all the valley Phagarim and ashes, and all Asaremoth unto the rushing stream Kidron, unto the corner gate of the horses eastward, shall be a sanctuary to the LORD; and no longer shall it be plucked up, and in no way shall it be demolished unto the eon.
JER 32:1 The word having come from the LORD to Jeremiah in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah - this is the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
JER 32:2 And the force of the king of Babylon built a palisade against Jerusalem. And Jeremiah was being guarded in the courtyard of the guard, which is in the house of the king of Judah.
JER 32:3 By which king Zedekiah imprisoned him, saying, Why do you prophesy, saying, Thus said the LORD, Behold, I give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it;
JER 32:4 and Zedekiah in no way shall escape from out of the hand of the Chaldeans, for by being delivered up he shall be delivered up into the hands of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with his mouth to his mouth, and his eyes shall see his eyes.
JER 32:5 And Zedekiah shall enter into Babylon, and there he shall stay until of which time I should look upon him, says the LORD. But if you should wage war against the Chaldeans, you shall not be prosperous.
JER 32:6 And Jeremiah spoke. And the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 32:7 Behold, Hanameel son of Shallum brother of your father comes to you, saying, Acquire to yourself my field in Anathoth! For it is equitable to you to take it for a possession.
JER 32:8 And Hanameel the son of Shallum the brother of my father came to me according to the word of the LORD in the courtyard of the guard. And he said to me, Acquire to yourself my field in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin! For it is equitable to you to acquire, for you are older. And I knew that it was the word of the LORD.
JER 32:9 And I acquired the field from Hanameel the son of the brother of my father - the one in Anathoth. And I set for him seven and ten silver shekels.
JER 32:10 And I wrote in a scroll, and set a seal upon it, and took the testimony of witnesses, and set the silver in a yoke balance scale.
JER 32:11 And I took the scroll of the possession being read, and having the seal set upon,
JER 32:12 and gave it to Baruch son of Neriah, son of Maaseiah, before the eyes of Hanameel son of the brother of my father, and before the eyes of the ones standing witnessing and writing in the scroll of the possession, and according to the eyes of all the Jews sitting down in the courtyard of the guard.
JER 32:13 And I gave order to Baruch in front of their eyes, saying,
JER 32:14 Thus said the LORD almighty, the God of Israel, Take the scroll of this possession - even this scroll being sealed and being read! And you shall put it into an earthenware receptacle, that it should remain many more days.
JER 32:15 For thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Still there shall be created fields, and houses, and vineyards in this land.
JER 32:16 And I prayed to the LORD after my giving the scroll of the possession to Baruch son of Neriah, saying,
JER 32:17 O Being One, O LORD God, you made the heaven and the earth by your great strength and your high and elevated arm; in no way shall anything be concealed from you;
JER 32:18 the one having mercy unto thousands, and recompensing sins of fathers into the bosom of their children after them; the great and strong God; the LORD of the forces, is his name;
JER 32:19 of great counsel, and mighty in works, (your eyes are opened upon all the ways of the sons of men, to give each according to his way, and according to the fruit of his practices;)
JER 32:20 who did signs and miracles in the land of Egypt unto this day, and in Israel, and among the earth-born; and made for yourself a name, as this day;
JER 32:21 and led your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with miracles, by a fortified hand, and by a high arm, and by great visions.
JER 32:22 And you gave to them this land which you swore by an oath to their fathers - a land flowing milk and honey.
JER 32:23 And they entered, and took it. And they hearkened not to your voice, and they did not go by your orders. All which you charged to them they did not do. And they caused all these bad things to come to pass to them.
JER 32:24 Behold, a multitude is come unto the city to seize it, and the city was given into the hands of Chaldeans waging war against it, by the face of the sword, and famine, and pestilence. As you said, so it happened; and, behold, you see.
JER 32:25 And you say to me, Acquire to yourself the field with silver, and take testimony of witnesses - and the city was given into the hands of Chaldeans!
JER 32:26 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 32:27 I am the LORD God of all flesh. Shall anything be hidden from me?
JER 32:28 On account of this, thus said the LORD; In granting, this city shall be delivered up into the hands of Chaldeans, and into the hands of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it.
JER 32:29 And the Chaldeans shall come waging war against this city; and they shall burn this city by fire, and shall incinerate the houses in which they burned incense upon their roofs to Baal, and offered libations to other gods, to greatly embitter me.
JER 32:30 For the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah were alone doing the wicked thing in front of my eyes from their youth. The sons of Israel were the ones greatly embittering me in the works of their hands, says the LORD.
JER 32:31 For this city was for my anger and for my rage from which day they built it, and unto this day; to rid it from my face;
JER 32:32 because of all the wickedness of the sons of Israel and Judah, which they did to embitter me, they, and their kings, and their rulers, and their priests, and their prophets, the men of Judah, and the ones dwelling in Jerusalem.
JER 32:33 And they turned their back to me, and not their face. And I taught them at dawn, and they hearkened not to take instruction.
JER 32:34 And they put their defilements in the house which my name was called upon by them in their uncleannesses.
JER 32:35 And they built the shrines to Baal in the ravine of the son of Hinnom, to offer their sons and their daughters to Molech; which I ordered not to them, and it ascended not unto my heart to do this abomination, to seduce Judah to sin.
JER 32:36 And now, thus said the LORD God of Israel against this city, which you say, It shall be delivered up into the hands of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by famine, and by pestilence.
JER 32:37 Behold, I will gather them from out of all the land of which I scattered them there in my anger, and in my rage, and a great fit of temper. And I will return them unto this place, and will settle them having secured them.
JER 32:38 And they will be to me for a people, and I will be to them for God.
JER 32:39 And I will give to them another way and another heart, to fear me all the days, and for good to them, and to their children after them.
JER 32:40 And I will ordain with them an everlasting covenant which in no way shall I turn behind them. And I will put my fear in their heart, to not separate them from me.
JER 32:41 And I will visit them to do good to them. And I will plant them in this land in trust, even with all my heart, and with all my soul.
JER 32:42 For thus said the LORD, As I brought upon this people all these great bad things, so I will bring upon them all the good things which I spoke unto them.
JER 32:43 And there shall be acquired still fields in the land, in which you say, It is untrodden of men and beast; and they were delivered up into the hands of Chaldeans.
JER 32:44 And they shall acquire fields with silver. And you shall write in a scroll, and shall set a seal upon it, and shall take testimony of witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and round about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the mountain, and in the cities of the Sephela, and in the cities of the Negev. For I shall return their resettlement, says the LORD.
JER 33:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah a second time, (and he was still bound in the courtyard of the guard,) saying,
JER 33:2 Thus said the LORD, the one making the earth and shaping it, to re-erect it; the LORD is his name.
JER 33:3 Cry out to me, and I will answer you, and I will report to you great and mighty things which you knew them not!
JER 33:4 For thus said the LORD God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the king of Judah being demolished for a siege mound and battlements,
JER 33:5 to do combat against the Chaldeans, and to fill it of ones dead, of the men whom I struck in my anger, and in my rage, and turned my face from this city on account of all their wickednesses.
JER 33:6 Behold, I lead to her a closing of her wound and a cure, and I will treat them, and I will make manifest to them to hear, and I will make to them peace and trust.
JER 33:7 And I will return the resettlement of Judah and the resettlement of Israel, and will build them as prior.
JER 33:8 And I will cleanse them from all their iniquities which they sinned against me; and in no way shall I remember their sins which they sinned against me, and separated from me.
JER 33:9 And it will be to me for a name for gladness, and for praise, and for magnificence to all the people of the earth, who shall hear all the good things which I do for them. And they shall fear and shall be pricked on account of all the good things, and on account of all the peace which I make for them.
JER 33:10 Thus said the LORD, There shall still be heard in this place, (in which you say, It is desolate of men and animals, in the cities of Judah, and outside Jerusalem in the places having been made desolate by the not being a man and beast,)
JER 33:11 a voice of gladness, and a voice of joyfulness, a voice of a groom, and a voice of a bride, a voice of men saying, Make acknowledgment to the LORD almighty! For the LORD is gracious, for into the eon is his mercy. And they shall carry in gifts to the house of the LORD. For I shall return all the resettlement of that land as prior, said the LORD.
JER 33:12 Thus said the LORD of the forces, There shall yet be in this desolate place, (by reason of not being a man and cattle in all of its cities,) a lodging for shepherds bedding flocks.
JER 33:13 In the cities of the mountainous area, and in the cities of the Sephela, and in the cities of the Negev, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places round about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, yet shall go sheep by the hand of one counting, said the LORD.
JER 33:14 Behold days come, says the LORD, and I will raise up the good word which I spoke over the house of Israel and over the house of Judah.
JER 33:15 In those days, and in that time, I will cause to sprout to David a bud of righteousness. And a king shall reign, and shall be perceiving, and shall cause equity and righteousness in the land.
JER 33:16 In those days Judah shall be delivered, and Jerusalem shall dwell securely. And this is the name they shall call him, The LORD our just one.
JER 33:17 For thus says the LORD, It shall not be deficient to David for a man sitting upon the throne of Israel.
JER 33:18 And from the priests and Levites it shall not be deficient for a man to be before me offering whole burnt offerings, and an incense gift, and doing a sacrifice all the days.
JER 33:19 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 33:20 Thus says the LORD, If you should make my covenant as being annulled, the covenant with the day and my covenant with the night, so as for there to not be a day and a night in their time,
JER 33:21 then my covenant in being annulled will be with David my servant, so as to not be of him a son reigning upon his throne, nor with the Levites and priests of my ministration.
JER 33:22 As if the military of heaven shall not be counted, and the sand of the sea shall not be measured, thus I shall multiply the seed of David my firebrand, and of the Levites of my ministration.
JER 33:23 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 33:24 Do you not know what this people spoke, saying, Two kin which the LORD chose, he pushed them out? And they provoked my people that you should not be a nation before them.
JER 33:25 Thus says the LORD, If my covenant may not be to the day and to the night, and laws of the heaven and of the earth, then I ordained not.
JER 33:26 Thus the seed of Jacob, and David my servant I would have banished, so as for me to not receive of his seed rulers among the seed of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob. For I shall return their captivity, and I shall show mercy on them.
JER 34:1 The word coming to Jeremiah from the LORD, and for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and all his encamped army, and to all the kingdoms of the earth under the dominion of his hand, all the peoples waging war against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah, saying,
JER 34:2 Thus said the LORD, the God of Israel; Proceed to Zedekiah king of Judah! And you shall say to him, Thus said the LORD, In delivering up, I shall deliver up this city into the hands of the king of Babylon, and he shall seize it, and shall burn it with fire.
JER 34:3 And you in no way shall be delivered from out of his hand, and by seizure you shall be seized, and into his hands you shall be given; and your eyes shall see his eyes and his mouth shall speak with your mouth, and into Babylon you shall enter.
JER 34:4 But hear the word of the LORD, Zedekiah, O king of Judah! Thus says the LORD to you, You shall not die by the broadsword.
JER 34:5 In peace you shall die, and as they burned your fathers reigning prior of you, so they shall burn also you, saying, O Lord. And they shall lament you, for I spoke the word, said the LORD.
JER 34:6 And Jeremiah spoke to king Zedekiah all these words in Jerusalem.
JER 34:7 And the force of the king of Babylon waged war against Jerusalem, and against the cities of Judah remaining, and against Lachish, and against Azekah, for these were left among the cities of Judah - fortified cities.
JER 34:8 The word coming to Jeremiah by the LORD, after the completing by king Zedekiah the covenant with the people in Jerusalem, to call indeed for a release;
JER 34:9 for each to send out his manservant, and each his maidservant - the Hebrew man and the Hebrew woman free, so that no man from Judah should slave.
JER 34:10 And all the great men heeded, and all the people entering into the covenant to send each his manservant, and each his maidservant free, to not serve any more to them. And they heeded, and let them go.
JER 34:11 And they were turned after these happenings. And they led the bondmen and the maidservants whom they sent free, and subjected them again as menservants and maidservants.
JER 34:12 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 34:13 Thus said the LORD God of Israel, I ordained a covenant with your fathers in the day in which I rescued them from out of the land of Egypt, from out of the house of slavery, saying,
JER 34:14 Whenever six years should be fulfilled, you shall send free your Hebrew brother, who shall be sold to you; and he shall work for you six years, and then you shall send him out free. And they heard me not, and leaned not their ear.
JER 34:15 And they turned today to do the right thing before my eyes, for each to call for a release for his neighbor; and they completed a covenant in front of me, in the house of which my name is called upon in it.
JER 34:16 And you turned and profaned my covenant, to return each his manservant, and each his maidservant, whom you sent out as ones free in their soul, and subjected them again to be to you for menservants and maidservants.
JER 34:17 On account of this, thus said the LORD, You hearkened not to me to call a release - each for his brother, and each for his neighbor; behold, I call a release to you - to the sword, and to the plague, and to the famine; and I will give you for dispersion unto all the kingdoms of the earth.
JER 34:18 And I will give the men passing my covenant, the ones not establishing my covenant, which they made in front of me, the calf which they cut in two parts, and I went through in the midst of its parts,
JER 34:19 of the rulers of Judah, and rulers of Jerusalem, and mighty ones, and priests, and all the people of the land;
JER 34:20 and I will give them to their enemies, and into the hand of ones seeking their life. And their decaying flesh will be food to the winged creatures of the heaven, and to the wild beasts of the earth.
JER 34:21 And Zedekiah king of Judea, and his rulers I will give into the hands of their enemies, and into the hands of ones seeking their life, and into the hands of the force of the king of Babylon - to the ones running from them.
JER 34:22 Behold, I order it, says the LORD, and I will return them into this city. And they shall wage war against her, and shall take her, and shall incinerate her in fire; and the cities of Judah - I will make them for untrodden of ones dwelling.
JER 35:1 The word coming to Jeremiah by the LORD in the days of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, saying,
JER 35:2 Proceed unto the family of the Rechabites, and call them, and you shall bring them into the house of the LORD, into one of the courtyards, and give them wine to drink.
JER 35:3 And he led Jaazaniah son of Jeremiah, son of Habaziniah, and his brothers, and his sons, and all the family of the Rechabites.
JER 35:4 And I brought them into the house of the LORD, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan son of Igdaliah, a man of God, which is near the house of the rulers, above the house of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the one guarding the way.
JER 35:5 And I set in front of them a clay vessel of wine, and cups, and I said, Drink wine!
JER 35:6 And they said, In no way should we drink wine, for Jonadab son of Rechab our father gave charge to us, saying, In no way shall you drink wine, you and your sons unto the eon.
JER 35:7 And in no way shall you build houses, and in now way shall you sow seed, and a vineyard shall not be to you; for in tents you shall dwell all your days, so that you should live many days upon the land, upon which you spend your time upon it.
JER 35:8 And we hearkened to the voice of Jonadab son of Rechab our father in all things which he gave charge to us, to not drink wine all the days of our life, we, and our wives, and our sons, and our daughters;
JER 35:9 for the not building houses to dwell in there, and a vineyard and a field, and seed - it happened not to us.
JER 35:10 And we lived in tents, and we hearkened, and did according to all as much as Jonadab our father gave charge to us.
JER 35:11 And it came to pass when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon ascended upon the land, that we said, In ascending, we shall enter into Jerusalem from in front of the Chaldeans, and from in front of the force of the Assyrians. And we lived there.
JER 35:12 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 35:13 Thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Go and say to the man of Judah, and to the ones dwelling Jerusalem! In no way will you take instruction to hear my word, says the LORD.
JER 35:14 The sons of Jonadab son of Rechab established the word given charge to his children to not drink wine; and they drank not unto this day, for they hearkened to the command of their father. And I spoke to you early, and I spoke and you hearkened not.
JER 35:15 And I sent to you my servants the prophets, rising early in the morning and sending, saying, Let each turn from his evil way, and do better in your practices! And you shall not go after other gods to serve them. And you shall live upon the land which I gave to you, and to your fathers. And you leaned not your ears, and you hearkened not.
JER 35:16 But the sons of Jonadab son of Rechab established the commandment of their father, which he gave charge to them; but this people heard me not.
JER 35:17 On account of this, Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Behold, I bring upon Judah, and upon the ones dwelling Jerusalem all the bad things which I spoke against them. For I spoke to them, and they hearkened not. And I called them, and they answered not.
JER 35:18 And to the house of the Rechabites, Jeremiah said, Thus said the LORD, Since the sons of Jonadab son of Rechab hearkened to the commandment of their father, to do in so far as their father gave charge to them; on account of this, thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel,
JER 35:19 No way shall there fail a man of the sons of Jonadab son of Rechab standing in front of me all the days.
JER 36:1 And in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
JER 36:2 Take to yourself a papyrus leaf scroll, and write upon it all the words which I spoke to you against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations from which day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah king of Judah, and unto this day!
JER 36:3 Perhaps the house of Judah will hear all the bad things which I devise to do to them; that they should turn from their wicked way; and I will be propitious to their iniquities, and to their sins.
JER 36:4 And Jeremiah called Baruch son of Neriah. And Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD of which he gave a divine message to him on a papyrus paper scroll.
JER 36:5 And Jeremiah gave charge to Baruch, saying, I am guarded, and I am not able to enter into the house of the LORD.
JER 36:6 And you shall enter, and shall read with this papyrus paper scroll into the ears of the people in the house of the LORD in the day of the fast. And in the ears of all Judah coming from out of their cities, you shall read to them.
JER 36:7 Perhaps their need for mercy will fall in front of the LORD, and they will turn from their evil way. For great is the rage and the anger of the LORD which he spoke against this people.
JER 36:8 And Baruch son of Neriah did according to all which Jeremiah gave charge to him, to read in the scroll the words of the LORD in the house of the LORD.
JER 36:9 And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, they held an assembly fast in front of the LORD, all the people of Jerusalem, and the house of Judah.
JER 36:10 And Baruch read in the scroll the words of Jeremiah in the house of the LORD, in the house of Gemariah son of Shaphan the scribe, in the upper courtyard, in the thresholds of the new gate of the house of the LORD, in the ears of all the people.
JER 36:11 And Micaiah son of Gemariah son of Shaphan heard all the words of the LORD from out of the scroll.
JER 36:12 And he went down unto the house of the king, unto the house of the scribe. And behold, there all the rulers sat - Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan son of Achbor, and Gemariah son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah son of Hananiah, and all the rulers.
JER 36:13 And Michaiah announced to them all the words which he heard Baruch reading in the scroll, in the ears of the people.
JER 36:14 And all the rulers sent to Baruch, son of Neriah, the son of Jehudi, son of Nethaniah, son of Shelemiah, son of Cushi, saying, The scroll in which you read by it into the ears of the people, take it into your hand and come! And Baruch son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand, and went down to them.
JER 36:15 And they said to him, Again read for our ears! And Baruch read in their ears.
JER 36:16 And it happened as they heard all the words, each gave advice to his neighbor, and said to Baruch, By announcing, we should announce to the king all these words.
JER 36:17 And they asked Baruch, saying, From what place did you write all these words?
JER 36:18 And Baruch said, From the mouth of Jeremiah. He announced to me all these words, and I wrote upon a scroll.
JER 36:19 And the rulers said to Baruch, Proceed and be hid, you and Jeremiah! Let not a man know where you are!
JER 36:20 And they entered to the king, into the courtyard, and put the scroll to guard in the house of Elishama the scribe. And they announced to the king all these words.
JER 36:21 And the king sent Jehudi to take the scroll. And he took it from out of the house of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read in the ears of the king, and in the ears of all the rulers sitting around the king.
JER 36:22 And the king was sitting in the winter house in the ninth month, with a grate of fire in front of him.
JER 36:23 And it came to pass Jehudi having read three columns or four, he shred them with the razor of the scribe, and tossed into the fire upon the grate, until all the papyrus leaf vanished in the fire upon the grate.
JER 36:24 And they were not amazed, and they tore not their garments - the king and all his servants, hearing all these words.
JER 36:25 And Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah suggested to the king to not incinerate the papyrus paper.
JER 36:26 And he hearkened not to them. And the king gave charge to Jerahmeel son of the king, and to Seraiah son of Azriel, and Shelemiah son of Abdeel, to seize Baruch the scribe, and Jeremiah the prophet - and they were hidden.
JER 36:27 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, after the king incinerating the papyrus paper with all the words which Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
JER 36:28 Again take to yourself another papyrus paper scroll, and write all the words being on the papyrus paper scroll which king Jehoaikim incinerated!
JER 36:29 And to Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, you shall say, Thus said the LORD, You incinerated this scroll, saying, Why did you write upon it, saying, In entering the king of Babylon shall enter, and shall utterly destroy this land, and shall obliterate from it man and beast.
JER 36:30 On account of this thus said the LORD against Jehoiakim king of Judah; There will not be to him one sitting down upon the throne of David; and his decaying flesh will be for tossing in the sweltering heat of the day, and in the icy coldness of the night.
JER 36:31 And I will visit against him, and against his family, and against his children their lawlessnesses. And I will bring upon them, and upon the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, and upon the land of Judah, all the evils which I spoke to them; and they heard not.
JER 36:32 And Jeremiah took another papyrus paper scroll, and he gave it to Baruch son of Neriah the scribe. And he wrote upon it from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the scroll which Jehoiakim king of Judah incinerated in fire, and still were added to it many words as these.
JER 37:1 And Zedekiah son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave reign to reign in the land of Judah.
JER 37:2 And he hearkened not, and his servants, and the people of the land, of the words of the LORD which he spoke by the hand of Jeremiah.
JER 37:3 And king Zedekiah sent Jehucal son of Shelemiah and Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest to Jeremiah, saying, Pray concerning us to the LORD our God!
JER 37:4 And Jeremiah came and went through the middle of the city, and they did not put him into prison.
JER 37:5 And the force of Pharaoh came forth from out of Egypt. And the Chaldeans heard the report of them, and they ascended unto Jerusalem.
JER 37:6 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
JER 37:7 Thus said the LORD, the God of Israel; Thus shall you say to the king of Judah, the one sending to you to inquire of me; Behold, the force of Pharaoh coming forth to you for help shall return into the land of Egypt.
JER 37:8 And the Chaldeans themselves shall return, and shall wage war against this city, and shall seize it, and shall burn it with fire.
JER 37:9 For thus said the LORD, You should not undertake the thought in your souls, saying, The Chaldeans shall depart from us running. For in no way shall they depart.
JER 37:10 And if you should strike all the force of the Chaldeans waging war against you, and there should be left behind a certain amount having been stabbed each in his place, these shall rise up, and shall burn this city by fire.
JER 37:11 And it came to pass when the force of the Chaldeans ascended from Jerusalem from in front of the force of Pharaoh,
JER 37:12 that Jeremiah came forth from Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin to buy from there land in the midst of the people.
JER 37:13 And he was himself in the gate of Benjamin. And there was there a man by whom he rested up, Irijah, son of Shelemiah, son of Hananiah. And he seized Jeremiah, saying, You are fleeing to the Chaldeans.
JER 37:14 And he said, It is a lie, I am not fleeing unto the Chaldeans. But he did not listen to him. And Irijah seized Jeremiah, and brought him to the rulers.
JER 37:15 And the rulers were embittered over Jeremiah, and they struck him, and sent him into the house of the prison of Jonathan the scribe - for this they made into a house of a prison.
JER 37:16 And Jeremiah came into the house of the pit, and into the confinement, and stayed there many days.
JER 37:17 And Zedekiah sent and called him. And the king asked him secretly, and said to him, Is there a word from the LORD? And he said, It is into the hands of the king of Babylon you shall be delivered up.
JER 37:18 And Jeremiah said to the king, How did I wrong you, and your servants, and this people, that you put me into a prison house?
JER 37:19 And where are your prophets, the ones prophesying to you, saying that, In no way shall the king of Babylon come unto this land?
JER 37:20 And now hear indeed, O lord, O king! Let mercy fall for me in front of you! And in no way should you return me unto the house of Jonathan the scribe, and in no way should I die there.
JER 37:21 And the king ordered, and they put him in the house of the guard, and gave to him one bread a day from outside of which they baked, until the breads failed from the city. And Jeremiah stayed in the courtyard of the guard.
JER 38:1 And Shephatiah son of Mattan heard, and Gedaliah son of Pashur, and Jucal son of Shelemiah, and Pashur son of Malchiah, the words which Jeremiah spoke unto the people, saying,
JER 38:2 Thus said the LORD, The one dwelling in this city shall die by the broadsword, and by famine, and by pestilence; and the one going forth to the Chaldeans shall live; and his life shall be for gain, and he shall live.
JER 38:3 For thus said the LORD, In being delivered up, this city shall be delivered up into the hands of the force of the king of Babylon, and he shall seize it.
JER 38:4 And the rulers said to the king, Do away with that man indeed, for he enfeebles the hands of the men waging war being left in this city, and the hands of all the people, by speaking to them according to these words. For this man does not speak oracles for peace to this people, but only evils.
JER 38:5 And king Zedekiah said, Behold, he is in your hands; for the king was not able to resist them.
JER 38:6 And they took Jeremiah, and tossed him into the pit of Malchiah, son of the king, which was in the courtyard of the guard. And they let him down with rough cords into the pit. And in the pit there was not water, but only mire, and he was in the mire.
JER 38:7 And Ebed-melech the Ethiopian eunuch man heard, (and he was in the courtyard of the king,) that they cast Jeremiah into the pit; and the king was sitting down at the gate of Benjamin.
JER 38:8 And Ebed-melech went forth from the house of the king, and spoke to the king, and said,
JER 38:9 My master, O King, all these men did wickedly in which they did against Jeremiah the prophet, dropping him into the pit, that he should die in it from the face of hunger, for there are not yet breads in the city.
JER 38:10 And the king gave charge to Ebed-melech, saying, Take with yourself from here thirty men, and lead him from out of the pit, that he should not die.
JER 38:11 And Ebed-melech took the men, and he entered into the house of the king, the subterranean part. And he took from there old rags and old rough cords, and he tossed them to Jeremiah in the pit.
JER 38:12 And he said to him, Put these underneath the rough cords! And Jeremiah did so.
JER 38:13 And they drew him with the rough cords, and led him up from out of the pit. And Jeremiah stayed in the courtyard of the guard.
JER 38:14 And the king sent, and called him to himself into the house Asaliseel, in the house of the LORD. And the king said to him, I shall ask you a word, and you shall not hide from me the saying.
JER 38:15 And Jeremiah said to the king, If I should announce to you, will you not to death put me to death? And if I shall advise you, in no way shall you hear me.
JER 38:16 And the king swore by an oath to him secretly, saying, As the LORD lives, who appointed us this life, Shall I kill you, and shall I put you into the hands of these men seeking your life? No!
JER 38:17 And Jeremiah said to him, Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, If by going forth you should go forth to the governors of the king of Babylon, your soul shall live, and this city in no way shall be incinerated by fire; and you shall live, and your family.
JER 38:18 But if you do not go forth, this city shall be given into the hands of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you in no way shall be delivered from their hands.
JER 38:19 And the king said to Jeremiah, I have a matter with the Jews having fled to the Chaldeans, lest they give me into their hands, and they shall deride me.
JER 38:20 And Jeremiah said, In no way shall they deliver you up. Hearken to the word of the LORD which I speak to you! And it will be better for you, and your soul shall live!
JER 38:21 And if you do not want to come forth, this is the word which the LORD showed to me.
JER 38:22 Behold, all the women being left behind in the house of the king of Judah having been led out to the rulers of the king of Babylon, and these women shall say, the men at peace with you deceived you and prevailed over you, and they will depose you in slips of your feet - they turned from you.
JER 38:23 And your wives, and your children they shall lead out to the Chaldeans; and you, in no way shall you be delivered, for by the hand of the king of Babylon you shall be seized, and this city shall be incinerated.
JER 38:24 And Zedekiah said to him, to Jeremiah, Let no man know of these words, and you shall in no way die!
JER 38:25 And if the rulers should hear that I spoke to you, and they should come to you, and should say to you; Announce to us what you spoke to the king, you should not hide it from us, then in no way will we do away with you; and what did the king say to you?
JER 38:26 And you shall say to them, I tossed my plead for mercy before the eyes of the king, to not return me to the house of Jonathan for me to die there.
JER 38:27 And came all the rulers to Jeremiah, and they asked him. And he announced to them according to all these words which the king gave charge to him. And they kept silent, for the true matter was not heard.
JER 38:28 And Jeremiah stayed in the courtyard of the guard until a time of which Jerusalem was seized.
JER 39:1 And it came to pass in the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, came Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his force against Jerusalem, and they assaulted it.
JER 39:2 And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, ninth of the month, the city was broken asunder.
JER 39:3 And all the governors of the king of Babylon entered, and sat at the gate, the one in the middle - Nergal-sharezer, Samgar, and Nebo-sarsechim, and Nebu-sarkes and Nergal, Sharezer, Rab-mag, and the rest of the governors of the king of Babylon.
JER 39:4 And it came to pass as Zedekiah king of Judah saw them, and all the men warriors, that they fled and went forth at night from the city, according to the way of the garden of the king, through the gate between the wall and the fortification around the wall. And they went forth by the way of Araba.
JER 39:5 And the force of the Chaldeans pursued after them, and seized Zedekiah on the other side of Jericho. And they led him to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to Riblah the city in the land of Hamath. And he spoke against him with judgment.
JER 39:6 And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah before his eyes; and all the rulers of Judah he slew.
JER 39:7 And the eyes of Zedekiah he blinded. And he bound him with shackles, and led him unto Babylon.
JER 39:8 And the house of the king, and the houses of the people the Chaldeans set on fire with fire, and the wall of Jerusalem they demolished.
JER 39:9 And the extra of the people, and the ones being left behind in the city, and the ones falling in - they fell to the king of Babylon.
JER 39:10 And the rest of the people, and the ones being left behind, Nabuzar-adan the chief guard removed unto Babylon. And of the poor of the people who were not anything, Nabuzar-adan the chief guard left behind in the land of Judah. And he gave to them vineyards and fields in that day.
JER 39:11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave charge concerning Jeremiah in the hand of Nebuzar-adan the chief guard, saying,
JER 39:12 Take him and put your eyes upon him! And you should not do to him anything bad; but as he should say to you, thus you shall do for him!
JER 39:13 And Nabuzar-adan the chief guard sent, and Nabushasban and Rab-sares and Nergel and Sharezer and Rab-mag and all the governers of the king of Babylon.
JER 39:14 And they sent and took Jeremiah from out of the courtyard of the guard, and gave him to Gedaliah son of Ahikam son of Shaphan, and led him out. And he sat in the midst of the people.
JER 39:15 And to Jeremiah came the word of the LORD in the courtyard of the guard, saying,
JER 39:16 Go and speak to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian! saying, Thus said the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I bring my words upon this city for bad things, and not for good things. And they shall be before you in that day.
JER 39:17 And I shall deliver you in that day, says the LORD, and I will not give you into the hands of the men whom you fear from their face.
JER 39:18 For by delivering, I shall deliver you, and by the broadsword in no way shall you fall. And your life will be for gain, for you relied upon me, says the LORD.
JER 40:1 The word coming to Jeremiah from the LORD afterwards with his being sent by Nabuzar-adan the chief guard from out of Ramah in the taking him in manacles in the midst of the resettlement of Judah, of the ones being led into Babylon.
JER 40:2 And the chief guard took him, and said to him, The LORD your God spoke these evils against this place.
JER 40:3 And the LORD did as he said, for you all sinned against him, and hearkened not to his voice, and this word happened to you,
JER 40:4 And now behold, I untied you from the manacles upon your hands. If it is good before you to come with me into Babylon - come, and I will put my eyes upon you! But if not, run from here! Behold, all the land before you is for good; and for where it is pleasing in your eyes to go there - go!
JER 40:5 And return to Gedaliah son of Ahikam son of Shaphan whom the king of Babylon established in the land of Judah, and live with him in the midst of the people! For all the places good in your eyes to go - go! And the chief guard gave to him a feast and gifts, and sent him.
JER 40:6 And he came to Gedaliah in Mizpah, and stayed in the midst of the people being left behind in the land.
JER 40:7 And all the leaders of the force in the field heard, they and their force, that the king of Babylon established Gedaliah in the land, and that they deposited to his care men, and their wives, and the simple people, and for the needy of the land, of which he resettled not in Babylon.
JER 40:8 And came to Gedaliah in Mizpah, even Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and Johanan son of Kareah, and Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah son of the Maachathite - they and their men.
JER 40:9 And Gedaliah swore by an oath to them and to their men, saying, Lest you should fear from the face of the servants of the Chaldeans, dwell in the land, and work for the king of Babylon, and it will be better to you!
JER 40:10 And behold, I sit in Mizpah to stand against the face of the Chaldeans, to whom ever should come against us. And you bring together wine, and autumn fruits, and olive oil, and lay them in your receptacles, and dwell in the cities in which you held firmly!
JER 40:11 And all the Jews in Moab, and among the sons of Ammon, and the ones in Edom, and the ones in all the land, heard that the king of Babylon granted a vestige to Judah, and that he placed over them Gedaliah son of Ahikam.
JER 40:12 And all the Jews were returned from every place into which they were dispersed. And they came to Gedaliah in the land of Judah in Mizpah. And they gathered wine and autumn fruits - much, exceedingly, and olive oil.
JER 40:13 And Johanan son of Kareah, and all the governors of the force in the fields, came to Gedaliah in Mizpah.
JER 40:14 And they said to him, Do you with knowledge know that Baalis king of the sons of Ammon sent against you Ishmael son of Nethaniah to strike your life? And Gedaliah son of Ahikam trusted them not.
JER 40:15 And Johanan son of Kareah said to Gedaliah secretly in Mizpah, I will go indeed, and I shall strike Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and let no one know lest he should strike your soul, and should scatter all Judah being brought together to you, and they shall destroy the rest of Judah!
JER 40:16 And Gedaliah said to Johanan son of Kareah, You should not do this thing, for you speak lies concerning Ishmael.
JER 41:1 And it came to pass in the seventh month, came Ishmael son of Nethaniah son of Elishama, from the family of the king, and leaders of the king, and ten men with him to Gedaliah in Mizpah; and they ate bread together there.
JER 41:2 And Ishmael rose up, and the ten men who were with him, and they struck Gedaliah by sword, and killed him, whom the king of Babylon established over the land,
JER 41:3 and all the Jews being with him in Mizpah, and all the Chaldeans being found there. And Ishmael stuck the men warriors.
JER 41:4 And it came to pass in the second day of his striking Gedaliah, that not a man knew of it;
JER 41:5 And there came men of Shechem from Shiloh, and from Samaria - eighty men, being shaven of beards, and having the garments being torn, and beating their chests, and gifts and frankincense was in their hands to carry into the house of the LORD.
JER 41:6 And Ishmael son of Nethaniah came forth to meet them from Mizpah, and they went and wept. And he said to them, Enter to Gedaliah!
JER 41:7 And it happened in their entering in the midst of the city, that he slew them at the well - he and the men with him.
JER 41:8 And ten men were found there. And they said to Ishmael, You should not do away with us, for there are with us treasures in the field, wheat and barley, and honey, and olive oil. And he passed by, and did not do away with them in the midst of their brothers.
JER 41:9 And the well into which Ishmael tossed all whom he struck was a great well. This is the one which king Asa made from fear in front of Baasha king of Israel. This well Ishmael son of Nethaniah filled of slain ones.
JER 41:10 And Ishmael returned all the people being left behind in Mizpah, and the daughters of the king who the chief guard deposited in the care to Gedaliah son of Ahikam. And he set out unto the other side of the sons of Ammon.
JER 41:11 And Johanan son of Kareah heard, and all the leaders of the force with him, all the evil things which Ishmael son of Nethaniah did.
JER 41:12 And he led all their encamped army, and set out to wage war against him, and found him at the water of the great pool in Gibeon.
JER 41:13 And it came to pass when all the people with Ishmael saw Johanan son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the force with him, they were glad,
JER 41:14 and they returned to Johanan.
JER 41:15 But Ishmael escaped with eight men, and set out towards the sons of Ammon.
JER 41:16 And Johanan took, and all the leaders of the force with him, all the remnant of the people whom he returned from Ishmael son of Nethaniah from Mizpah - after his striking Gedaliah son of Ahikam - mighty men in war; and the women, and the rest of the things, and the eunuchs, whom he returned from Gibeon,
JER 41:17 and set out and stayed in Chimham by Beth-lehem, to go into Egypt,
JER 41:18 from the face of the Chaldeans. For they feared from their face; for Ishmael struck Gedaliah whom the king of Babylon established in the land.
JER 42:1 And all the leaders of the force went forward, and Johanan son of Kareah, and Jezaniah son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from small and unto great.
JER 42:2 And they said to Jeremiah the prophet, Let there fall now our need for mercy in front of you! And pray to the LORD your God concerning the rest of these! For we are left few from many, as your eyes see.
JER 42:3 And let the LORD your God announce to us, the way in which we shall go by it, and the word which we shall do!
JER 42:4 And Jeremiah the prophet said to them, I heard, behold, I will pray to the LORD our God according to your words. And it will be the word which the LORD shall answer, I will announce to you; in no way shall I hide from you a word.
JER 42:5 And they said to Jeremiah, Let the LORD be to us for a just and trustworthy witness! For according to every word which ever the LORD your God should send you to us - thus we will do.
JER 42:6 And whether if good or if bad be the voice of the LORD our God, of whom we send you to him, then we shall hearken, that it should be better to us - for we shall hearken to the voice of the LORD our God.
JER 42:7 And it came to pass after ten days, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah.
JER 42:8 And he called Johanan son of Kareah, and the leaders of the force, and all the people, from small and unto great.
JER 42:9 And he said to them, Thus said the LORD, the God of Israel, of whom you sent me to him, that your supplication should fall before him.
JER 42:10 If staying, you should stay in this land, then I will build you, and in no way shall I demolish; and I will plant you, and in no way pluck. For I have caused rest over the hurts which I did to you.
JER 42:11 You should not be fearful from the face of the king of Babylon, of whom you fear from his face. You should not be fearful, says the LORD, for I am with you, to rescue you, and to deliver you from out of his hand.
JER 42:12 And I will grant to you an act of kindness, and will show mercy on you, and will return you unto your land.
JER 42:13 And if you say to yourselves, In no way should we stay in this land, so as to not hearken to the voice of the LORD your God,
JER 42:14 saying, Far be it, for we shall enter into the land of Egypt, and in no way should we know war, and in no way should we hear the sound of a trumpet, and in no way should we hunger in breads, and we shall live there.
JER 42:15 On account of this, hear the word of the LORD, O remnant of Judah, thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel! If you should put your face unto Egypt, and should enter in there to dwell;
JER 42:16 then it shall be the broadsword which you shall fear from its face - it shall find you in Egypt; and the famine of which you have a reckoning from in front of it - it shall overtake you in Egypt, and there you shall die.
JER 42:17 And shall be all the men putting their face to enter into the land of Egypt to dwell there - they shall fail by the broadsword, and by the famine, and pestilence. And there will not be for them any one delivering from the evils which I bring upon them.
JER 42:18 For thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, As my rage dripped upon the ones inhabiting Jerusalem, so shall my rage drip upon you, on your entering into Egypt. And you shall be for an untrodden land, and under one's hands, and for a curse, and for scorning; and in no way shall you behold any longer this place,
JER 42:19 which the LORD spoke against you, the ones remaining of Judah - you should not enter into Egypt. And now, in knowing, you shall know that I witnessed to you today,
JER 42:20 that you did wickedly in your souls, sending me to the LORD your God, saying, Pray concerning us to the LORD! And according to all what ever the LORD our God should say to you, thus you tell us and we will act.
JER 42:21 And I announced to you, and you hearkened not to the voice of the LORD your God, according to all which he sent to you.
JER 42:22 And now by the broadsword, and by famine, and by pestilence, you shall end in the place in which you wanted to enter to dwell there.
JER 43:1 And it came to pass as Jeremiah ceased speaking to the people all the words of the LORD their God, which the LORD their God sent to them, even all these words.
JER 43:2 And Azariah son of Hoshaiah said, and Johanan son of Kareah, and all the proud men speaking to Jeremiah, You speak lies, The LORD our God sent you not to us, to say, You should not enter into Egypt to live in there.
JER 43:3 But Baruch son of Neriah unites with you against us, that you should give us into the hands of the Chaldeans, to put us to death, and to resettle us in Babylon.
JER 43:4 And Johanan son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the force, and all the people hearkened not to the voice of the LORD to dwell in the land of Judah.
JER 43:5 And Johanan took, and all the leaders of the force, the whole of the rest of Judah, of the ones returning from all of the nations which they were scattered there, to dwell in the land of Judah,
JER 43:6 the mighty men, and the women, and the infants remaining, and the daughters of the king, and the souls which Nabuzar-adan the chief guard left behind with Gedaliah son of Ahikam, and Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch son of Neriah,
JER 43:7 and entered into Egypt, for they hearkened not to the voice of the LORD; and they entered into Tahpanhes.
JER 43:8 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,
JER 43:9 Take to yourself great stones, and hide them in the thresholds in the gate of the residence of Pharaoh in Tahpanhes, in front of the eyes of the men of Judah.
JER 43:10 And you shall say, Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Behold, I send for, and I will bring Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon my servant, and he shall put his throne upon these stones which you hid; and he shall lift the shields upon them.
JER 43:11 And he shall enter, and shall strike the land of Egypt - whom for death unto death, and whom for resettlement unto resettlement, and whom for broadsword unto broadsword.
JER 43:12 And he shall kindle a fire in the houses of their gods, and shall set them on fire, and shall resettle them, and shall fumigate the land of Egypt as the shepherd fumigates his garment; and he shall go forth in peace.
JER 43:13 And he shall break the columns of Heliopolis, in Egypt. And the houses of the gods of Egypt he shall incinerate with fire.
JER 44:1 The word coming to Jeremiah to all the Jews dwelling in the land of Egypt, and to the ones settling in Migdol, and in Tahpanhes, and in Memphis, and in the land of Pathros, saying,
JER 44:2 Thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, You have seen all the evils which I brought upon Jerusalem, and upon the cities of Judah; And behold, they are desolate today of ones dwelling,
JER 44:3 because of the face of their wickedness of which they did to greatly embitter me; going to burn incense to other gods, which they knew not - even you, and your fathers.
JER 44:4 And I sent to you my servants the prophets early. And I sent saying, You shall not do this thing - this contamination of which I detested.
JER 44:5 And they hearkened not to me, and leaned not their ear to turn from their evils to not burn incense to other gods.
JER 44:6 And my anger dripped upon them, and my rage, and it was kindled in the cities of Judah, and outside Jerusalem. And they became for desolation and for an untrodden place, as this day.
JER 44:7 And now thus said the LORD almighty, the God of Israel; Why do you do great evils against your souls - to cut off from you man and woman, infant and one nursing, from the midst of Judah, to not leave behind for yourselves not one person;
JER 44:8 to embitter me greatly in the works of your hands, to burn incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, into which you entered to dwell there, that you should be cut off, and that you should become as a curse, and for scorning among all the nations of the earth?
JER 44:9 Have you yourselves forgotten the evils of your fathers, and the evils of the kings of Judah, and the evils of your rulers, and the evils of your wives, which they did in the land of Judah, and outside of Jerusalem?
JER 44:10 And they did not cease unto this day. And they feared not, and held not to my orders which I put in front of them, and in front of their fathers.
JER 44:11 On account of this, thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Behold, I set my face against you for evil, to destroy all Judah.
JER 44:12 And I shall take the remnant of Judah, that established their face to enter into the land of Egypt to dwell there, and they shall all fail in the land of Egypt; and they shall fall by broadsword, and they shall fail by famine, from small unto great. And they will be for scorning, and for destruction, and for a curse.
JER 44:13 And I will visit against the ones settling in the land of Egypt, as I visited against Jerusalem by broadsword, and by famine, and by plague.
JER 44:14 And there shall not be one escaping - not one of the ones remaining of Judah sojourning in the land of Egypt, to return into the land of Judah upon which they hope in their souls to return there. In no way shall they return, except the ones escaping.
JER 44:15 And all the men answered to Jeremiah, the ones knowing that their wives burned incense to other gods, and all the women, a great gathering, and all the people settling down in the land of Egypt, in the land of Pathros, saying,
JER 44:16 The word which you spoke to us in the name of the LORD - we will not hearken to you.
JER 44:17 For in doing we will do all the matter which shall come forth out of our mouth, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to offer to her libations, as we did ourselves, and our fathers, and our kings, and our rulers, in the cities of Judah, and outside of Jerusalem. And we were filled of breads, and we were better off, and we did not see bad things.
JER 44:18 And as we stopped burning incense to the queen of the heaven, and offering a libation to her of a libation, we were all made less, and by broadsword and by famine we failed.
JER 44:19 And seeing that we burned incense to the queen of heaven, and offered to her libations, did we without our husbands knowledge make to her cakes, and offer libations to her?
JER 44:20 And Jeremiah said to all the people, to the mighty men, and to the women, and to all the people responding to him with words, saying,
JER 44:21 Did not, ( concerning the incense of which you burned in the cities of Judah, and outside Jerusalem, you and your fathers, and your kings, and your rulers, and the people of the land) the LORD remember and it ascended unto his heart?
JER 44:22 And the LORD was not able still to bear up from in front of the wickedness of your deeds, and from your abominations which you did; and your land became for desolation, and for an untrodden place, and for a curse, as this day,
JER 44:23 from in front of which you burned incense, and which you sinned against the LORD, and hearkened not to the voice of the LORD, and to his orders, and to his law, and did not go by his testimonies, and these evils took hold of you as this day.
JER 44:24 And Jeremiah said to the people, and to the women, Hear the the word of the LORD all Judah, the ones in the land of Egypt!
JER 44:25 Thus said the LORD God of Israel, You and your women spoke with your mouth, and fulfilled by your hands, saying, In offering, we shall offer our acknowledgment offerings which we acknowledged, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to offer to her libations. In adhering you adhered to your acknowledgment offerings, and the offerings which you offered.
JER 44:26 On account of this, hear the word of the LORD all Judah, the ones settling down in the land of Egypt! Behold, I swore by an oath to my great name, said the LORD. My name shall no longer be in the mouth of all Judah, to say, Live, O Lord the LORD, in all the land of Egypt.
JER 44:27 For behold, I have been vigilant against them, to inflict hurt on them, and not to do good. And all Judah dwelling in the land of Egypt shall fail by broadsword, and by famine, until whenever they should cease.
JER 44:28 And the ones escaping from the broadsword shall return into the land of Judah being few in number. And all the remnant of Judah shall know, the ones sojourning in the land of Egypt to sojourn there, whose word will adhere, mine, or theirs.
JER 44:29 And this is the sign, says the LORD, to you, that I myself will visit upon you in this place, that you should know that my words shall adhere unto you for evils.
JER 44:30 Thus said the LORD, Behold, I give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hands of his enemy, and into the hands of ones seeking his life; as I have given Zedekiah king of Judah into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, his enemy, and the one seeking his life.
JER 45:1 The word which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Baruch son of Neriah, when he wrote these words in the scroll from the mouth of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, saying,
JER 45:2 Thus said the LORD God of Israel, concerning you, O Baruch.
JER 45:3 For you said, Alas, for the LORD added toil upon my misery; I went to bed in my moanings, I did not find rest.
JER 45:4 You said to him! Thus said the LORD; Behold, What I built up I demolish, and what I planted I pluck - even all the land of mine.
JER 45:5 And you seek to yourself great things. You should not seek. For behold, I bring bad things upon all flesh, says the LORD. But I will give to you your life for gain in every place wherever you should proceed there.
JER 46:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah the prophet against all nations;
JER 46:2 against Egypt, against the force of Pharoah Necho king of Egypt, who was at the river Euphrates in Carchemish, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck, which was in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah.
JER 46:3 Take up weapons and shields, and lead forward to battle!
JER 46:4 Saddle the horses, mount up the horsemen, and put on your helmets! Furbish the spears, and put on your chest plates!
JER 46:5 Why is it that they are terrified and retreat to the rear - for their strong ones shall be beaten; they fled a flight into exile, and they shall not return compassing round about, says the LORD.
JER 46:6 Let not the nimble flee, and let not the strong be rescued by the north! The ones by the river Euphrates are weakened, and have fallen.
JER 46:7 What is this that shall ascend as a river, even as rivers swell up by water?
JER 46:8 The waters of Egypt shall ascend as a river. And he said, I will ascend, and cover up the earth; and I will destroy the city and the ones dwelling in it.
JER 46:9 Mount upon the horses, and prepare the chariots! Let come forth the warriors of Ethiopia, and Libyans armed with shields! And ascend, O Lydians - stretch tight the bow!
JER 46:10 And that day will be to the LORD God of the forces, a day of vengeance, to take vengeance on his enemies. And the sword shall devour, and be filled, and be intoxicated from their blood. For there is a sacrifice to the LORD of Hosts upon a land of the north at the river Euphrates.
JER 46:11 Ascend to Gilead, and take balm to the virgin daughter of Egypt! In vain you multiplied your cures - there is not a benefit to you.
JER 46:12 The nations heard your voice, and the earth was filled with your cry. For warrior against warrior is weakened together - both fell.
JER 46:13 What the LORD spoke by the hand of Jeremiah the prophet concerning the coming of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to smite the land of Egypt.
JER 46:14 Announce in Egypt, and make audible in Migdol, and exhort in Memphis! And in Tahpanhes say, Attend to, and prepare; for the sword devoured your yew tree!
JER 46:15 Why did he flee after your chosen calf? He remained not, for the LORD disabled him.
JER 46:16 And your multitude weakened and fell. And each said to his neighbor, We should rise up, and return to our people, and unto our fatherland, from the face of the Grecian sword.
JER 46:17 Call the name Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt, Saon Esbeie Moed.
JER 46:18 As I live, says the king, the LORD of the forces, for as Tabor is in the mountains, and as Carmel is by the sea, he shall come.
JER 46:19 Make for yourself items for settlement, O one dwelling, O daughter of Egypt! For Memphis will be for extinction, and shall be called, Woe, by there not existing ones dwelling in her.
JER 46:20 Egypt is a heifer being bedecked, a broken branch from the north came upon her.
JER 46:21 And her hirelings in her are as calves well fed, being maintained in her; for also they turned and fled with one accord. They did not stand, for the day of destruction came upon them, and the time of their punishment.
JER 46:22 Her voice is as a serpent hissing; for they shall go in sand. With axes they shall come upon her, as ones felling wood.
JER 46:23 You cut down her forest! says the LORD. For in no way should their number be imagined; for it is multiplied above the locust, and there is not a number to them.
JER 46:24 The daughter of Egypt shall be disgraced. She is delivered into the hands of the people from the north.
JER 46:25 Says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Behold, I punish Amon her son upon Egypt, and upon her gods, and upon her kings; even upon Pharaoh, and upon the ones relying upon him.
JER 46:26 And I will give them into the hand of the ones seeking their life, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of his servants. And after these things it shall be as in the old days, says the LORD.
JER 46:27 But you should not be fearful, my servant Jacob, nor should you be terrified, O Israel. For behold, I deliver you from far off, and your seed from their captivity. And Jacob shall return, and shall be tranquil, and shall sleep, and there will not be one troubling him.
JER 46:28 You should not fear, my child, Jacob, says the LORD, For I am with you. For I will appoint consummation among every nation in which I led you out of there. But you in no way will I appoint to cease, and I will correct you in judgment; but I will not acquit you as innocent.
JER 47:1 And the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet against the Philistines, before the striking of Pharoah of Gaza.
JER 47:2 Thus says the LORD, Behold, waters ascend from the north, and will be for a rushing stream, flooding. And it shall flood the land, and the fullness of it - the city, and the ones dwelling in it. And the men shall cry out, and the ones dwelling in the land shall shout all together
JER 47:3 from the sound of his thrust, from the hoofs of his feet, and from the quake of his chariots, the sound of his wheels. Fathers turned not unto their sons because of the feebleness of their hands,
JER 47:4 in the day, in the coming one, to destroy all the Philistines, and to obliterate Tyre and Sidon and all the rest of their helpers; for the LORD will utterly destroy the Philistines of the remnants of the islands of Cappadocia.
JER 47:5 Baldness is come upon Gaza; Ashkelon was thrown away, and the remnant of the Anakim.
JER 47:6 How long will you smite, sword of the the LORD? Until when will you not be still? Restore it unto your sheath! Cause it to rest, and be lifted away!
JER 47:7 How shall it be quiet, and the LORD gave charge to it against Ashkelon, and against the places by the sea, for the remnant to be roused.
JER 48:1 To Moab, thus said the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; Woe unto Nebo, for it was destroyed. Kiriathaim was taken. The fortification was shamed - it was vanquished.
JER 48:2 Moab is not still prancing. In Heshbon he devised for her bad things; come, and we should cut her from being a nation, and by cessation she shall cease; a sword shall proceed behind you.
JER 48:3 For there is a voice of men crying out of Horonaim - ruin and great destruction.
JER 48:4 Moab is destroyed. Announce in Zogora!
JER 48:5 tnat Luhith is filled with weeping. It shall ascend weeping in the way of Horonaim. You heard a cry of destruction.
JER 48:6 Flee, and escape with your lives, and you shall be as a wild donkey in the wilderness!
JER 48:7 Since you had relied on your fortresses, and in your treasures, then you shall be seized. And Chemosh shall go forth in resettlement - his priests and his rulers together.
JER 48:8 And ruin shall come upon every city, and a city in no way shall be delivered. And the canyon shall be destroyed, and the plain shall be utterly destroyed, as the LORD said.
JER 48:9 Put signs upon Moab, for by an infection she shall be kindled; and all her cities shall be for an untrodden land, because of the not being one dwelling in her.
JER 48:10 Cursed is the one doing the work of the LORD indifferently, and cursed is the one lifting away his sword from blood.
JER 48:11 Moab rested from boyhood, and is relying upon his glory. He has not poured dregs from receptacle unto receptacle, and into settlement he has not set out. On account of this his taste stood with him, and his scent dissipated not.
JER 48:12 On account of this, behold, days come, says the LORD, and I will send to him ones leaning, and they shall lean him, and they shall thin out his vessels, and shall break his horns.
JER 48:13 And Moab shall be disgraced from Chemosh, as the house of Israel was disgraced from Beth-el their hope, having relied upon themselves.
JER 48:14 How will you say, We are strong, and each man strong for war?
JER 48:15 Moab is destroyed; his city and his choice young men went down to slaughter, says the king - the LORD of the forces is his name.
JER 48:16 Near is the day of Moab to come, and his harm very quickly.
JER 48:17 Move him, all ones round about him! All seeing his name, say! O how the renowned staff is broken, the rod of magnificence.
JER 48:18 Come down from glory, and sit being sat down in wetness, O daughter of Dibon! for Moab is destroyed - one ascended unto you laying waste your fortress.
JER 48:19 Upon the way stand and look, O one sitting down in Aroer! And ask the one fleeing and escaping! And say, What happened?
JER 48:20 Moab was disgraced, for he is broken. Shriek and cry out! Announce in Arnon, that Moab is destroyed,
JER 48:21 and judgment is come unto the land of Misor; upon Holon, and upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath,
JER 48:22 and upon Dibon, and upon Nebo, and upon the house of Diblathaim,
JER 48:23 and upon Kiriathaim, and upon the house of Gamul, and upon the house of Meon,
JER 48:24 and upon Kerioth, and upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of Moab - the ones at a distance, and the ones near!
JER 48:25 The horn of Moab was broken, and his forearm was destroyed, says the LORD.
JER 48:26 Intoxicate him! for he was magnified against the LORD. And Moab shall strike with his hand, and will be for laughter, even himself;
JER 48:27 and to us it was for a joke to you, O Israel, and among your stealth he was found, for you waged war against him.
JER 48:28 The ones dwelling in Moab left the cities and lived in rocks; they became as doves nesting in rocks, at the mouth of a pit.
JER 48:29 I heard the insolence of Moab, (he insulted exceedingly;) and of his insult, and of his pride, and his heart was raised up high.
JER 48:30 But I know, says the LORD, of his works; is it not enough for him? Is it not thus he did?
JER 48:31 On account of this shriek for Moab on all sides! Yell over men of Keir Heres of squalid condition!
JER 48:32 As weeping of Jazer, I shall weep over you. O grapevine of Sibmah; your vine branches went through the sea; they touched city of Jazer. Upon your autumn fruits and upon your grape gatherers ruin fell.
JER 48:33 Cause for joy was seized, and gladness from Carmel, even from the land of the Moabites; and wine in your wine vats they treaded not by morning, nor at evening. They did not make a joyful acclamation.
JER 48:34 From a cry of Heshbon unto Elealeh, even unto Jahaz, they gave out their voice; from Zoar unto Horonaim, even as a heifer of three years. For also the water of Nimrim will be for burning.
JER 48:35 And I will destroy Moab, says the LORD, the one ascending unto the shrine, and burning incense to his gods.
JER 48:36 On account of this, the heart of Moab shall resonate as pipes; and my heart shall resonate as a pipe against men of Keir Heres. On account of this, what he procured perished from man.
JER 48:37 Every head in every place shall be shaved, and every beard shall be shaved, and all hands shall beat their chest, and upon every loin there shall be sackcloth;
JER 48:38 even upon all the roofs of Moab, and upon its squares. For I broke Moab, says the LORD, as a receptacle of which there is not a need of it.
JER 48:39 O how he reconciled. O how Moab turned his back. Moab was shamed and became for laughter, and an object of anger to all the ones round about her.
JER 48:40 For thus said the LORD, As an eagle, he shall spread and stetch out his wings for Moab.
JER 48:41 Kerioth was taken, and the fortresses were seized. And the heart of the might of Moab shall be in that day as the heart of a woman in travail.
JER 48:42 And Moab shall be destroyed from being a multitude, for it magnified itself against the LORD.
JER 48:43 A snare, and fear, and a pit, are upon you, O one being settled of Moab, says the LORD.
JER 48:44 The one fleeing from the face of fear shall fall into the cesspool; and the one ascending from out of the cesspool even shall be seized in the snare. For I shall bring these things upon Moab in the year of her visitation, says the LORD.
JER 48:45 In the shadow of Heshbon they stopped - from the force fleeing. For fire came forth from Heshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sihon, and devoured the side of Moab, and the top of the sons of Saon.
JER 48:46 Woe to you Moab. the people of Chemosh were destroyed. For they took your sons and your daughters for captivity.
JER 48:47 And I shall return the captivity prisoners. of Moab in the last days, says the LORD. Unto this is the judgment of Moab.
JER 49:1 To the sons of Ammon, thus said the LORD, Are there not no sons in Israel? Or is there not one inheriting them? Why did Milcom inherit Gad, and their people dwell in their cities?
JER 49:2 On account of this, behold, days come, says the LORD, and I shall cause to be heard upon Rabbah of the sons of Ammon a tumult of war. And they shall be for an untrodden land, and for destruction. And her shrines shall be incinerated by fire, and Israel shall inherit his rule, says the LORD.
JER 49:3 Shout, O Heshbon, for Ai was destroyed! Cry out, O daughters of Rabbah! Gird on sackcloths! Be possessed, and lament over Milcom! For in resettlement his priests and his rulers shall proceed together.
JER 49:4 Why do you exult in Emakeim, O daughter of the audacity? The one relying upon her treasures; the one saying, Who shall come to me?
JER 49:5 Behold, I will bring upon you fear, said the LORD of the forces, from all of your adjacent places. And you shall be scattered each unto his front, and there shall not be one gathering the runaways.
JER 49:6 And after these things I will return the captivity of the sons of Ammon, says the LORD.
JER 49:7 To Edom, thus says the LORD, There is not yet wisdom in Teman. The counsel of experts was destroyed. Their wisdom was undone.
JER 49:8 Their place was beguiled. Deepen to yourselves into sitting, O ones dwelling in Dedan, for he made difficult; I led him in the time which I visited against him.
JER 49:9 For grape gatherers came to you who shall not leave behind to you vestige. As thieves in the night, they shall put their hands.
JER 49:10 For I dragged down Esau; I uncovered their hidden things; in no way shall they be able to hide; they were destroyed by the hand of his brother, and his neighbor; and he is not.
JER 49:11 Let your orphan be left behind that he should live, and I shall enliven, and your widows shall hope upon me.
JER 49:12 For thus says the LORD, Behold, the ones which were not by law to drink the cup drank; and you for being acquitted in no way shall be acquitted; for by drinking you shall drink.
JER 49:13 For according to myself I swear by an oath, says the LORD, that for an untrodden land, and for scorning, and for a curse, you will be in the midst of her; and all her cities shall be wildernesses into the eon.
JER 49:14 In hearing, I heard from the LORD, and he sent messengers unto nations, saying, Gather together, and come to her! Rise up for war!
JER 49:15 Behold, I have appointed you to be small among nations, despicable among men.
JER 49:16 Your play took in hand against you; audacity of your heart deposed holes of rocks, it seized the strength of a high hill. For if you should raise up high your nest as an eagle, says the LORD, from there I will lower you.
JER 49:17 And Edom will be for an untrodden land. All the ones coming upon her shall be amazed, and shall whistle over all her calamities.
JER 49:18 As Sodom and Gomorrah and her sojourners were eradicated, said the LORD, in no way shall a man sit there, nor in any way should a son of man dwell there.
JER 49:19 Behold, as a lion he shall ascend from out of the midst of the Jordan unto the place of Aitham. For quickly I will drive them from her. And you set the young men against her! For who is as I? And who shall oppose me? And who is this shepherd who shall stand in front of me?
JER 49:20 On account of this, hear the plan of the LORD which he planned against Edom; and his device, which he devised against the ones dwelling Teman! Surely the least of the sheep shall be scraped away. Surely their resting-place shall be made impassable for them?
JER 49:21 From the sound of their downfall the earth was shaken. Your cry in the sea was heard.
JER 49:22 Behold, as an eagle he shall ascend, and shall see, and shall stretch out the wings against her fortresses. And the heart of the strong ones of Edom will be in that day as the heart of a woman travailing.
JER 49:23 To Damascus. Hamath was disgraced and Arpad; for they heard an evil report; they were startled; they were enraged; in no way shall they be able to rest.
JER 49:24 Damascus was enfeebled; she was turned to flight; trembling took hold of her; straitness and grief constrained her as one being in travail.
JER 49:25 O how was the praised city not left, the town being loved.
JER 49:26 On account of this, young men shall fall in your squares; and all the men warriors of yours shall fall in that day, says the LORD of the forces.
JER 49:27 And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the plaza of the son of Hadad.
JER 49:28 To Kedar, and to the queen of the courtyard which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck. Thus said the LORD, Rise up, and ascend unto Kedar, and strike the sons of Kedem!
JER 49:29 They shall take their tents and their sheep, their garments and all their vessels; and they shall take their camels for themselves. And you call upon them destruction round about!
JER 49:30 Flee exceedingly! You deepened into sitting - sitting down in the courtyard, says the LORD! For Nebuchadnezzer king of Babylon planned against you a plan, and devised against you a device.
JER 49:31 Rise up, and ascend upon a stable nation! One sitting down for respite, in which there is not doors nor bars - alone they rest up.
JER 49:32 And their camels will be for plunder, and the multitude of their cattle will be for destruction. And I shall winnow them with every wind, being shaven in front of them; from every side of them I will bring their enemy routing them, said the LORD.
JER 49:33 And the courtyard will be for a pastime of ostriches, and an untrodden place unto the eon; in no way shall a man be seated there, nor in any way should a son of man dwell there.
JER 49:34 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
JER 49:35 Thus says the LORD of the forces; Behold, I break the bow of Elam, the source of their dominions.
JER 49:36 And I shall bring upon Elam four winds from the four uttermost parts of the heaven; and I will scatter them in all these winds; and there will not be a nation which the ones being pushing out of Elam shall not come.
JER 49:37 And I shall terrify them before their enemies seeking their life. And I will bring upon them evil according to the anger of my rage, says the LORD. And I will send my sword as successor after them, until the completely consuming them.
JER 49:38 And I will put my throne in Elam, and I will send out from there a king and great men, says the LORD.
JER 49:39 And it will be at the latter ends of the days I will return the captivity of Elam, says the LORD.
JER 50:1 The word of the LORD which he spoke against Babylon, and against the land of the Chaldeans, by the hand of Jeremiah the prophet.
JER 50:2 Announce among the nations, and make it audible! Lift up a sign and make it audible! And you should not hide it. Say! Babylon is captured, Bel was disgraced, Merodach was delivered up. their carvings were shamed, their idols were delivered up.
JER 50:3 For ascended upon her a nation from the north. This one put her land for extinction, and there will not be one dwelling in her from man and beast.
JER 50:4 They shook and went. In those days, and in that time, says the LORD, the sons of Israel shall come; they and the sons of Judah together. Proceeding and weeping they shall go seeking the LORD their God.
JER 50:5 They shall ask the way unto Zion. For here they shall set their face, and shall come, and take refuge with the LORD; for the everlasting covenant shall not be forgotten.
JER 50:6 My people became perishing sheep; their shepherds pushed them out; they led them astray upon the mountains; from mountain unto hill they set out; they forgot their fold.
JER 50:7 All the ones finding them consumed them. Their enemies said, We should not spare them, because they sinned against the LORD, the pasture of righteousness to the one gathering their fathers - the LORD.
JER 50:8 Be separated from out of the midst of Babylon, and from the land of the Chaldeans, and go forth and become as dragons in front of sheep!
JER 50:9 For behold, I raise up against Babylon gatherings of great nations from out of the land of the north. And they shall deploy against her; from there she shall be captured as the arrow of an expert warrior shall not return empty.
JER 50:10 And the Chaldeans will be for plunder; all the ones despoiling her will be filled up, says the LORD.
JER 50:11 For you were glad, and gloried over plundering of my inheritance. For you leaped as young bullocks in a pasture, and gored as bulls.
JER 50:12 Your mother is exceedingly shamed; the one giving birth to you felt shame. Behold, the last of the nations shall be desolate and untrodden.
JER 50:13 From the anger of the LORD it shall not be dwelt in, and all will be for extinction. And all traveling through Babylon shall look downcast, and shall whistle at all her calamity.
JER 50:14 Deploy against Babylon round about, all stretching the bow! Shoot against her! Spare not against her your bows! For against the LORD she sinned.
JER 50:15 And secure her! Her hands were disabled; the parapets fell; her wall was razed. For it is vengeance by God. Take vengeance against her! As she did, you do to her!
JER 50:16 Utterly destroy the seed from out of Babylon; the one holding the sickle in the time of harvest, from in front of the Grecian sword! Each unto his people shall return, and each unto his land shall flee.
JER 50:17 Israel is a wandering sheep; lions pushed him out. The king of Assyria first devoured him, and this one afterwards devoured his bones - the king of Babylon.
JER 50:18 On account of this, thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, Behold, I take vengeance against the king of Babylon and his land, as I took vengeance against the king of Assyria.
JER 50:19 And I will restore Israel unto his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel, and in Bashan, and on mount Ephraim, and in Gilead, and his soul shall be satisfied.
JER 50:20 In those days, and in that time, says the LORD, they shall seek the unrighteousness of Israel, and it will not exist. And they shall seek the sins of Judah, and in no way shall they be found. For I will be kindness to the ones being left behind.
JER 50:21 Upon the land called, Bitterly, mount up against her! And against the ones dwelling in her punish by sword, and obliterate! says the LORD. And do according to all as much as I give charge to you!
JER 50:22 The sound of war and great destruction in the land of Chaldeans.
JER 50:23 O how the hammer of all the earth was broken in pieces and defeated? O how Babylon became for extinction among the nations?
JER 50:24 They shall attack you. and you shall be captured, O Babylon, and you knew not. You shall be found, and taken, for against the LORD you opposed.
JER 50:25 The LORD opened his treasury, and brought forth the items of his anger; for it is a work for the LORD God of the forces in the land of Chaldeans.
JER 50:26 For her times have come. Open her storehouses! Search her as a cave, and utterly destroy her! Let her vestige not be!
JER 50:27 Dry up all her fruits, and go down for slaughter! Woe to them, for their day is come, and a time of their punishment.
JER 50:28 A sound of ones fleeing and escaping from out of the land of Babylon, to announce unto Zion the vengeance by the LORD our God - vengeance of his temple.
JER 50:29 Exhort many against Babylon - to every one stretching tight the bow! Camp upon her round about! Let there not be of her's one escaping! Recompense to her according to her works! According to all as much as she did, you do to her! For she withstood against the LORD God, the holy one of Israel.
JER 50:30 On account of this her young men shall fall in her squares, and all the men, her warriors, shall be tossed down in that day, says the LORD.
JER 50:31 Behold, I am against you, O proud one, says the LORD God of the forces; for your day is come, and the time of your punishment.
JER 50:32 And your insolence shall be weakened and shall fall, and there shall not be one raising it. And I will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all the things round about her.
JER 50:33 Thus says the LORD of the forces, The sons of Israel and the sons of Judah together have been tyrannized. All the ones capturing them tyrannized them; for they wanted not to send them out.
JER 50:34 But the one ransoming them is strong. The LORD almighty is his name. He will judge equitably against his opponents, that the land should be removed; and he provokes the ones dwelling in Babylon.
JER 50:35 A sword upon the Chaldeans, says the LORD, and upon the ones dwelling Babylon, and upon her great men, and upon her experts.
JER 50:36 A sword is upon her clairvoyants; and they shall be foolish ones. A sword is upon her warriors, and they shall be disabled.
JER 50:37 A sword is upon their horses; and upon their chariots, and upon the consolidation - the one in the midst of her; and they will be as women. A sword is upon her treasures, and they shall be plundered.
JER 50:38 It relied upon her water; and they shall be disgraced. For it is a land of carved images, and in the islands they gloried over.
JER 50:39 On account of this the effigies shall dwell among the islands, and there shall dwell in them daughters of sirens. In no way should it be inhabited any longer unto the eon; nor shall it be encamped unto generation and generation.
JER 50:40 As God eradicated Sodom and Gomorrah, and the places adjoining them, said the LORD; in no way shall man dwell there, and in no way shall a son of man sojourn there.
JER 50:41 Behold, a people come from the north, and a great nation, and many kings shall be awakened from the end of the earth.
JER 50:42 They are holding a bow and a knife. They are audacious, and in no way shall they show mercy. Their voice shall sound as the sea. Upon horses they shall ride, being prepared as fire for war against you, O daughter of Babylon.
JER 50:43 The king of Babylon heard the report of them, and his hands were disabled; affliction held him firmly, pangs as a woman giving birth.
JER 50:44 Behold, as if a lion, he shall ascend from the Jordan into the place Aithan. For quickly I will drive them from her, and I will set every young man against her. For who is as I, and who shall oppose me, and who is this shepherd who shall stand in front of me?
JER 50:45 On account of this, hear the plan of the LORD which he has planned against Babylon; and his devices which he devised against the ones dwelling the land of the Chaldeans! Surely the little lambs of their sheep will be utterly destroyed. Surely the pasture shall be removed from them.
JER 50:46 For from the sound of the conquest of Babylon the earth shall be shaken, and her cry among nations shall be heard.
JER 51:1 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I awaken against Babylon, and against the Chaldeans dwelling there an utterly destroying burning wind.
JER 51:2 And I shall send against Babylon arrogant ones. And they shall insult her, and lay waste her land. Woe upon Babylon round about in the day of her affliction.
JER 51:3 Upon her let the one stretching stretch his bow, and put on what is his weapons! And spare not against her young men, and obliterate all her force!
JER 51:4 And slain shall fall in the land of the Chaldeans, and men being pierced through will fall from outside of her.
JER 51:5 For Israel and Judah have not been widowed from their God, from the LORD almighty; for their land was filled with injustice from the holy things of Israel.
JER 51:6 Flee from out of the midst of Babylon, and let each rescue his life! You should not be reeling in her iniquity, for it is the time of her punishment by the LORD; a recompense he shall recompense to her.
JER 51:7 A cup of gold is Babylon in the hand of the LORD, intoxicating all the earth; the nations drank from her wine; on account of this they are shaken.
JER 51:8 And suddenly Babylon fell and was broken. Lament her! Take balm for her hurt - if by any means she should be healed!
JER 51:9 We medically treated Babylon, and she would not be healed. We should abandon her, and each go forth unto his land, for her judgment has approached unto heaven - you lifted unto the stars.
JER 51:10 The LORD brought forth his judgment. Come, for we should announce in Zion the works of the LORD our God.
JER 51:11 Prepare the bows! Fill the quivers! The LORD aroused the spirit of the king of the Medes. For his anger is against Babylon, to utterly destroy her. For it is vengeance from the LORD; vengeance of his people.
JER 51:12 Against the walls of Babylon lift up a sign! Set watches! Prepare shields! For the LORD took in hand and he will do what he spoke against the ones dwelling Babylon.
JER 51:13 O ones encamping upon many waters, and upon the multitude of her treasures, your limit truly is come into your intestines.
JER 51:14 For the LORD swore by an oath according to his arm, saying, For I shall fill you of men as locusts, and the ones going down shall utter a sound against you.
JER 51:15 He is the one making the earth with his strength; preparing the world in his wisdom; with his understanding he stretched out the heaven.
JER 51:16 At his voice he set a great echo of water in the heaven, and led clouds from the end of the earth. He made lightnings for the rain, and led light from out of his treasuries.
JER 51:17 Every man has acted moronish because of knowledge; every goldsmith was disgraced because of their carved images. For they cast false gods; there is not a breath in them.
JER 51:18 They are vain works, being scorned. In the time of their visitation they shall be destroyed.
JER 51:19 Not such is the portion to Jacob; for the one shaping all things, he is his inheritance - the LORD of the forces is his name.
JER 51:20 You scatter for me items of war, and I shall scatter nations by you, and I will lift away kings from you.
JER 51:21 And I will scatter by you the horse and his rider. And I will scatter by you chariots and their riders.
JER 51:22 And I will scatter by you husband and wife. And I will scatter by you the old man and child. And I will scatter by you the young man and virgin.
JER 51:23 And I will scatter by you the shepherd and his flock. And I will scatter by you the farmer and his farm. And I will scatter by you governors and your commandants.
JER 51:24 And I will recompense to Babylon and to all the Chaldeans dwelling there all their evils which they did against Zion before your eyes, says the LORD.
JER 51:25 Behold, I am against you, O corrupting mountain, corrupting all the earth. And I will stretch out my hand against you. And I will roll the rocks downwards from you, and I will make you as a mountain being set on fire.
JER 51:26 And in no way shall they take from you a stone for a corner, and a stone for a foundation. For into eternal extinction you will be, says the LORD.
JER 51:27 Lift up a sign upon the earth! Trump among nations with a trumpet! Sanctify the nations against her! Exhort kingdoms against her - Ararat by me, and to the Ashchenazi! Set against her a range of weapons! Haul against her the horses as a multitude of locusts!
JER 51:28 Haul up nations against her - the king of the Medes and all the earth; his leaders, and all of his commandants!
JER 51:29 The earth was shaken and toiled; for the device of the LORD rose up against Babylon, to appoint the land of Babylon for extinction, and to not inhabit it.
JER 51:30 The warrior of Babylon failed to wage war; they shall sit there in the citadel. Their domination was enfeebled; they became as women. He set on fire her tents; her bars were broken.
JER 51:31 One is pursuing to meet one pursuing to pursue; and one announcing to meet one announcing to announce to the king of Babylon that his city is captured.
JER 51:32 Of the last of his fords were taken, and his garrisons were burned by fire, and his men warriors are coming forth.
JER 51:33 For thus says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel; The houses of the king of Babylon shall be threshed as a threshing-floor in season; still a little, and her harvest shall come.
JER 51:34 He devoured me; Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon portioned me; a fine darkness overtook me; he swallowed me down as a dragon; he filled his belly of my delicacies.
JER 51:35 My troubles and my miseries pushed me into Babylon, the one dwelling Zion shall say; and, My blood is upon the Chaldeans dwelling there, Jerusalem shall say.
JER 51:36 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Behold, I shall judge your opponent, and I will avenge your punishment, and I will make desolate her sea, and dry up her spring.
JER 51:37 And Babylon will be for extinction, a dwelling of dragons, an extincion, a hissing, and it shall not be inhabited.
JER 51:38 As lions, they were aroused together, even as cubs of lions.
JER 51:39 In their heat I will give to them a drink, and I shall intoxicate them so that they should be stupefied, and should sleep an everlasting sleep, and no way should they be roused, says the LORD.
JER 51:40 Bring them down as lambs to slaughter, and as rams with kids.
JER 51:41 O how Sheshach is captured, and the boasting of all the earth is hunted. O how Babylon became for extinction among the nations.
JER 51:42 The sea ascended upon Babylon with the sound of its waves, and she was covered up.
JER 51:43 Her cities became for extinction, a waterless and untrodden land. There shall not dwell in her not one thing, nor should there rest up in her a son of man.
JER 51:44 And I shall take vengeance against Babylon, and I will bring forth what she swallowed down from out of her mouth; and in no way should the nations gather to her any more. And even the wall of Babylon shall fall.
JER 51:45 Come forth from his midst my people, and let each deliver his own life from the anger of the rage of the LORD!
JER 51:46 Lest at any time your heart should be consumed, and you should be afraid on account of the report which shall be heard in the land, and the report shall come in a year, and after the year another report - misery and iniquity over the land, and one dominating over the one dominating.
JER 51:47 On account of this, behold, days come, and I shall take vengeance upon the carvings of Babylon. And all their land shall be made ashamed, all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
JER 51:48 And shall be glad over Babylon the heavens and the earth, and all the ones in them. For from the north comes to him ones utterly destroying, says the LORD.
JER 51:49 And even as Babylon acted to fall of the ones slain of Israel, also in Babylon the slain of all the earth shall fall.
JER 51:50 O ones being rescued from the broadsword, go and do not stand! Make mention, O ones far off, of the LORD, and let Jerusalem ascend upon your heart!
JER 51:51 We were ashamed, for we heard our scorning. Dishonor covered up our face. For foreigners entered into our holy places, into the house of the LORD.
JER 51:52 On account of this, behold, days come, says the LORD, and I will take vengeance against her carved images. And in all her land the slain shall fall.
JER 51:53 For though Babylon should ascend as the heaven, and though she should fortify the height of her strength; from me shall come ones utterly destroying her, says the LORD.
JER 51:54 The sound of a cry in Babylon, and great destruction in the land of Chaldeans.
JER 51:55 For the LORD utterly destroyed Babylon. And he destroyed from her a great voice sounding as many waters; he gave her voice for ruin.
JER 51:56 For misery came upon Babylon; her warriors captured; their bow was terrified; for God recompenses to them.
JER 51:57 The LORD recompenses to her the recompense, and he shall intoxicate her governors by intoxication, and her wise ones, and her commandants, says the king - the LORD almighty is his name.
JER 51:58 Thus says the LORD almighty, The wall of Babylon was widened; by razing it shall be razed, and her high gates by fire shall be set on fire; and peoples shall tire in vanity, and nations shall fail in their rule.
JER 51:59 The word which the LORD gave charge to Jeremiah the prophet to say to Seraiah son of Neriah, son of Maaseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah into Babylon in the fourth year of his kingdom. And Seraiah was ruler of the gifts.
JER 51:60 And Jeremiah wrote all the evils which shall come upon Babylon in a scroll - all these words being written against Babylon.
JER 51:61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, Whenever you should come into Babylon, and shall see, and shall read all these words;
JER 51:62 then you shall say, O LORD, you spoke against this place, to utterly destroy it, and to not be in it any dwelling from man unto beast, for it will be an extinction into the eon.
JER 51:63 And it will be whenever you shall cease to read this scroll, that you shall fasten upon it a stone, and shall toss it into the midst of the Euphrates.
JER 51:64 And shall say, So shall Babylon descend, and in no way shall she rise up from in front of the evils which I bring upon her, and it shall vanish. Until this are the words of Jeremiah.
JER 52:1 Being the twentieth and one year of Zedekiah in his taking reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
JER 52:2 And he did the wicked thing before the LORD, according to all as much as Jehoiakim did.
JER 52:3 For the wrath of the LORD was in Jerusalem and in Judah, until of which the throwing them off from his face, and Zedekiah separated against the king of Babylon.
JER 52:4 And it came to pass in the ninth year of his kingdom, in the tenth month, on the tenth of the month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, and all his force against Jerusalem. And they encamped by it, and they built against it a rampart round about.
JER 52:5 And the city came into conflict until the eleventh year to king Zedekiah.
JER 52:6 In the fourth month, the ninth of the month, even the famine was solidified in the city, and there were not breads to the people of the land.
JER 52:7 And the city was cut through, and all the men warriors fled, and went forth by night according to the way of the gate in the middle of the wall, and the area around the wall, which was next to the garden of the king, (and the Chaldeans were upon the city round about,) and went by the way into the wilderness.
JER 52:8 And the force of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and overtook him on the other side of Jericho; and all his servants were dispersed away from him.
JER 52:9 And they seized the king, and led him to the king of Babylon in Riblah in the land of Hamath; and he spoke to him with judgment.
JER 52:10 And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah in front of his eyes. And all the rulers of Judah he slew in Riblah.
JER 52:11 And the eyes of Zedekiah were blinded; and he bound him in shackles, and the king of Babylon led him into Babylon, and put him into the mill house until the day of which he died.
JER 52:12 And in the fifth month, the tenth of the month, came Nabuzar-ardan the chief guard, (the one standing in front of the king of Babylon,) unto Jerusalem.
JER 52:13 And he burnt the house of the LORD, and the house of the king, and all the houses of the city; even all the great houses he burnt with fire.
JER 52:14 And every wall of Jerusalem round about was demolished by the force of the Chaldeans with the chief guard.
JER 52:15 And from the needy of the people, and the rest of the people, and the ones being left behind in the city, and the ones falling in who fell to the king of Babylon, and the extra of the multitude, the chief guard moved.
JER 52:16 And the chief guard left behind some from the poor of the land for vine dressers and for farmers.
JER 52:17 And the columns of brass in the house of the LORD, and the bases, and the brass sea in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke. And they took of their brass unto Babylon.
JER 52:18 And the rim, and the bowls, and the meat hooks, and all the items of brass in which they officiated by them;
JER 52:19 even the silver things, and the snuffers, and the oil flasks, and the lamp-stands, and the incense pans, and the cups, (which was gold by gold, and which was silver by silver,) the chief guard took;
JER 52:20 even the two columns, and the one sea, and the twelve calves of brass underneath the sea, which king Solomon made for the house of the LORD. The weight of their brass was not known.
JER 52:21 And the columns - eighteen cubits was the height of the one column, and a string measure of twelve cubits surrounded it, and its thickness was of four fingers round about.
JER 52:22 And the molding upon them was of brass, and the length was five cubits, superior of the molding of the one. And a latticed work and pomegranates were upon the molding round about, all of brass. According to these things was the second column and pomegranates.
JER 52:23 And there were the pomegranates - ninety-six to the one part; and there were in all the pomegranates upon the lattice work round about a hundred.
JER 52:24 And the chief guard took Seraiah the foremost priest, and Zephaniah the priest being second, and the three of the ones guarding the way.
JER 52:25 And from the city he took one eunuch who was supervisor of the men of the warriors, and seven famous men of the ones in front of the king, being found in the city, and the scribe of the forces, acting as scribe to the people of the land, and sixty men from out of the people of the land being found in the midst of the city.
JER 52:26 And Nabuzar-ardan the chief guard took them, and led them to the king of Babylon in Riblah.
JER 52:27 And the king of Babylon struck them in Riblah in the land of Hamath. And Judah was transfered from its land.
JER 52:28 This is the people whom Nebuchadnezzar transferred in the seventh year - of Jews, three thousand and twenty-three.
JER 52:29 In the eighth and tenth year of Nebuchadnezzar he transferred from Jerusalem eight hundred thirty two souls.
JER 52:30 In the third and twentieth year of Nebuchadnezzar, the chief guard transferred of Jews seven hundred forty-five souls. All the souls four thousand and six hundred.
JER 52:31 And it came to pass in the thirtieth and seventh year of the resettling of Jehoiakim king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the fifth and twentieth day of the month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon took, in the year in which he took reign, the head of Jehoiakim king Judah, and led him from out of the house of which he was guarded.
JER 52:32 And he spoke to him graciously. And he put his throne above the thrones of the kings with him in Babylon.
JER 52:33 And he changed his prison apparel. And he ate bread always in front of him all the days which he lived.
JER 52:34 And the rate always given to him by the king of Babylon continued from day to day until the day of which he died.
LAM 1:1 And it came to pass after Israel was taken captive, and Jerusalem was made desolate, Jeremiah sat down weeping, and wailed this lamentation over Jerusalem, and said, O how the city being filled with peoples sits alone; she became as a widow. Becoming filled in the nations ruling in the regions, she became for tribute.
LAM 1:2 In weeping, she wept in the night, and her tears are upon her cheeks; and their existed not the one comforting her from all of the ones loving her. All the ones being fond of her discarded her; they became to her for enemies.
LAM 1:3 Judea was displaced because of her humiliation, and because of the multitude of her servitude. She stays among the nations, she did not find rest. All the ones pursuing her overtook her in the midst of the ones afflicting.
LAM 1:4 The ways of Zion mourn, by reason of there not being ones coming to the holiday feast. All her gates have been obliterated. Her priests are groaning, her virgins are being led captive, and she is being embittered in herself.
LAM 1:5 The ones afflicting her became the head, and her enemies are straightened; for the LORD humbled her over the multitude of her impieties. Her infants went into captivity in front of the one afflicting.
LAM 1:6 And went forth from out of the daughter of Zion all her beauty. Her rulers became as rams not finding pasture, and not going in strength in front of the one pursuing.
LAM 1:7 Jerusalem remembered the days of her humiliation, and her repulsions - all her desirable things, as many as were from ancient days during the falling of her people into the hands of the one afflicting, and not was one helping her. In seeing her, her enemies laughed upon her displacement.
LAM 1:8 Jerusalem sinned a sin; on account of this she became for tossing about. All the ones glorifying her humbled her, for they beheld her indecency. And indeed, she is moaning herself, and turns to the rear.
LAM 1:9 Her uncleanness is before her feet; she remembered not her end, and she was brought down enormously. There is not the one comforting her. Behold, O LORD, my humiliation, for the enemy was magnified!
LAM 1:10 The one afflicting his hand spread forth upon all the desirable things of hers. For she saw nations entering into her sanctuary - the ones which I charged them not to enter into your assembly.
LAM 1:11 All her people are groaning, seeking bread; they gave the desirable things of hers for food to restore their soul. Behold, O LORD, and look upon! For she became as one being disgraced.
LAM 1:12 All the ones coming near to you in the way turn and see if there is a pain as my pain which happened. The one uttering a sound to me humbled me - the LORD in a day of anger of his rage.
LAM 1:13 From out of his height he sent fire in my bones, and led it down. He opened and spread out a net for my feet; he turned me to the rear; he appointed me for being removed from view; an entire day for grieving.
LAM 1:14 He was vigilant concerning my acts of impiety; they are closely joined in my hands; they ascended unto my neck. My strength is weakened, for the Lord put griefs in my hands; I shall not be able to stand.
LAM 1:15 The Lord lifted away all my strong men from the midst of me. He called upon me a time to break my choice men. The LORD trod the wine vat for the virgin daughter of Judah.
LAM 1:16 Over these things I weep; my eye led down water. For far from me is the one comforting me, the one restoring my soul. My sons were obliterated, for the enemy conquered.
LAM 1:17 Zion opened and spread out her hands; there is not the one comforting her. The LORD gave charge to Jacob; round about him are the ones afflicting him. Jerusalem was as a woman sitting apart unclean in the midst of them.
LAM 1:18 The LORD is just; for I greatly embittered his mouth. Hear indeed all peoples, and behold my pain! My virgins and my young men were gone into captivity.
LAM 1:19 I called my lovers, but they misled me. My priests and my elders failed in the city, for they sought food for themselves, that they should restore their lives.
LAM 1:20 Behold, O LORD, for I am afflicted! My belly was disturbed, and my heart was turned within me; greatly embittering I was embittered. Outside the sword made me childless, as if a death in the house.
LAM 1:21 Hear indeed that I moan! There is not the one comforting me. All my enemies heard the bad things concerning me, and they rejoice that you did it. You brought on the day; you called the time; they became alike to me.
LAM 1:22 May all their evils enter before your face; and glean them in which manner they made a gleaning for all of my sins! For my moanings are many, and my heart frets.
LAM 2:1 O How the Lord darkened his anger for the daughter of Zion. He hurled down from out of heaven unto the earth the glory of Israel, and remembered not the footstool of his feet in a day of wrath of his rage.
LAM 2:2 the Lord sunk, not sparing, all the beautiful things of Jacob. He demolished in his rage the fortresses of the daughter of Judah. He cleaved unto the ground. He profaned her king and her ruler.
LAM 2:3 He broke in pieces in anger of his rage all the horn of Israel. He turned back his right hand protection. from the face of the enemy, and lit in Jacob a flame as fire, and it devoured all the things round about.
LAM 2:4 He stretched tight his bow as an enemy. He stiffened his right hand as an opponent, and killed all the desirable things of my eyes in the tent of the daughter of Zion. He poured out his anger as fire.
LAM 2:5 The LORD became as an enemy. He sunk Israel, he sunk all his palaces. He utterly destroyed his fortresses, and multiplied to the daughter of Judah the one humbling and the one being humbled.
LAM 2:6 And he opened and spread out his tent as a grapevine. his holiday feast was corrupted. The LORD forgot what he appointed in Zion - the holiday feast and the Sabbath; and the threatening of his anger provoked king and priest.
LAM 2:7 The Lord thrust away his altar, he brushed off his sanctuary, he broke by the hand of the enemy the wall of her palaces; they gave a sound in the house of the LORD, as in the day of holiday.
LAM 2:8 The LORD devised to ruin the wall of the daughter of Zion. He stretched out a measure; he returned not his hand from trampling. And the area around the wall mourned, and the wall with one accord was weakened.
LAM 2:9 Her gates are stuck into the ground; he destroyed and broke her gate bars. Her king and her rulers are among the nations. There is not law, and indeed her prophets beheld not a vision by the LORD.
LAM 2:10 They sat upon the ground; the elders of the daughter of Zion kept silent; they brought dust upon their head; they girded on sackcloths; they led down to the ground the heads of virgins in Jerusalem.
LAM 2:11 My eyes failed with tears; my heart is disturbed; my glory is poured out onto the ground over the destruction of the daughter of my people, in the failing infant and ones nursing in the squares of the city.
LAM 2:12 To their mothers they said, Where is grain and wine? while they were enfeebled as wounded men in the squares of the city, in the pouring out of their souls into the bosom of their mothers.
LAM 2:13 What shall I testify? or, What shall I liken to you, O daughter of Jerusalem? Who shall deliver you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For the cup of your destruction was enlarged - who shall heal you?
LAM 2:14 Your prophets saw for you vanities and folly; and they uncovered not upon your iniquity, to turn your captivity; and they beheld for you vain concerns and purgations.
LAM 2:15 All the ones passing in the way clap hands over you; they whistle and shake their head over the daughter of Jerusalem. Is she the city, they shall say, the crown of glory of gladness of all the earth?
LAM 2:16 All your enemies opened their mouth wide against you. They whistled and gnashed their teeth. They said, We swallowed her down. Besides, this is the day which we expected; we found it, we saw it.
LAM 2:17 The LORD did what he pondered; he completed his word which he gave charge from days of old. He demolished, and spared not, and gladdened the enemy over you. He raised up high the horn of the one afflicting you.
LAM 2:18 Their heart yelled out to the LORD, saying, O walls of Zion, lead down tears as a rushing stream day and night, and give soberness to yourself; nor let the pupil of your eye keep quiet!
LAM 2:19 Rise up to meditate in the night! At the beginnings of your watch pour out your heart as water before the face of the Lord! Lift to him your hands for the lives of your infants fainting from hunger at the corner of all the streets!
LAM 2:20 Behold, O LORD, and look upon what you gleaned thus! Shall the women eat the fruit of their belly? Shall infants nursing breasts be murdered? Shall you kill in the sanctuary of the Lord the priest and prophet?
LAM 2:21 A boy and old man went to bed on the ground in the street. My virgins and my young men went into captivity by broadsword. By famine you killed; in the day of your anger you cut up, you spared not.
LAM 2:22 You called as in a day of holiday for my sojourners round about; and there was not in the day of anger of the LORD one being rescued and being left behind - as I prevailed, and I filled all my enemies.
LAM 3:1 I am a man seeing poorness by a rod of his rage upon me.
LAM 3:2 He took me; he led me away into darkness, and not light.
LAM 3:3 Only against me he turned his hand the entire day.
LAM 3:4 He aged my flesh and my skin; he broke my bones.
LAM 3:5 He built against me, and encircled my head, and troubled me.
LAM 3:6 In dark places he settled me as dead ones of the eon.
LAM 3:7 He built against me, and I shall not come forth. He weighed down my brass chain.
LAM 3:8 Yes indeed, for though I shall cry out and yell, he shut out my prayer.
LAM 3:9 He blocked up my ways; he obstructed my roads; he disturbed me.
LAM 3:10 He is a bear lying in wait for me, as a lion in a secret place.
LAM 3:11 He pursued. I revolted, and he caused me to cease. He established me for being obliterated.
LAM 3:12 He stretched tight his bow, and he set up a stone target for me as the aim for the arrow.
LAM 3:13 He brought the poison a poison arrow from his quivers into my kidneys..
LAM 3:14 I became laughter to all my people; their psalm for the entire day.
LAM 3:15 He filled me with bitterness; he intoxicated me with bile,
LAM 3:16 and he knocked out my teeth by a small stone; he fed me ashes,
LAM 3:17 and thrust away my soul from peace. I forgot good things.
LAM 3:18 And I said, My victory perished, even my hope from the LORD.
LAM 3:19 I remembered because of my poorness, and of my persecution, of my bitterness, and of my bile.
LAM 3:20 I shall be remembered, and my soul shall converse with me.
LAM 3:21 This I will arrange into my heart; on account of this I will wait.
LAM 3:22 The mercies of the LORD - for they finished not, for his charities failed not.
LAM 3:23 The ones new in the morning; great is your trust.
LAM 3:24 The LORD is my portion, said my soul, on account of this I will wait for him.
LAM 3:25 The LORD is good to the ones waiting on him - a soul which shall seek him.
LAM 3:26 It is good, and he shall wait, and be still for the deliverance of the LORD.
LAM 3:27 It is good for a man whenever he should lift a yoke from his youth.
LAM 3:28 He will sit down alone, and will keep silent, for he lifted it upon himself.
LAM 3:29 He shall put his mouth in dust; if perhaps there is hope.
LAM 3:30 He will give his cheek to the one hitting him. He will be filled of scornings.
LAM 3:31 For not into the eon shall the Lord thrust away.
LAM 3:32 For the one he humbled he shall pity according to the multitude of his mercy.
LAM 3:33 He was not answered from his heart, and he humbled sons of man;
LAM 3:34 to humble under his feet all the prisoners of the earth;
LAM 3:35 to turn aside a judgment of a man over against the face of the highest;
LAM 3:36 to condemn mankind in the judging him - the Lord spoke not.
LAM 3:37 Who thus spoke, and it came to pass, but the Lord did not give charge?
LAM 3:38 From out of the mouth of the highest shall not come forth bad and good?
LAM 3:39 Why does a living man grumble; a man concerning his sin?
LAM 3:40 Our way was searched out and examined, and we should turn unto the LORD.
LAM 3:41 We should lift up our hearts with our hands to the height in heaven.
LAM 3:42 We sinned, we were impious, and you atoned not.
LAM 3:43 You enveloped in rage, and banished us. You killed and spared not.
LAM 3:44 You enveloped yourself with a cloud because of prayer to close my eyelids.
LAM 3:45 And to be thrust away you put us in the midst of the peoples.
LAM 3:46 All our enemies opened wide their mouth against us.
LAM 3:47 Fear and stupefaction was to us, haughtiness and destruction.
LAM 3:48 My eye shall lead down releases of waters upon the destruction of the daughter of my people.
LAM 3:49 My eye was swallowed down and I shall not be quiet, to not be sober,
LAM 3:50 until of which time the LORD should look through and should behold from out of heaven.
LAM 3:51 My eye shall glean upon my soul because of all the daughters of the city.
LAM 3:52 In hunting my enemies hunted me as a sparrow freely.
LAM 3:53 They put to death my life in the pit, and they placed a stone upon me.
LAM 3:54 Water overflowed upon my head. I said, I am thrust away.
LAM 3:55 I called upon your name, O LORD, from out of the lowermost pit.
LAM 3:56 My voice you heard; you should not hide your ears to my supplication.
LAM 3:57 You approached for my help in the day in which I called upon you. You said to me, Do not fear!
LAM 3:58 You adjudicated, O Lord, the punishments of my soul. You ransomed my life.
LAM 3:59 You saw, O LORD, my disturbances. You judged my case.
LAM 3:60 You beheld all their vengeance, and all their devices against me.
LAM 3:61 You heard their scorning - all their devices against me;
LAM 3:62 the lips of ones rising up against me, and their meditations against me the entire day;
LAM 3:63 their sitting down, and their rising up. Look upon their eyes!
LAM 3:64 You shall recompense to them a recompense, O LORD, according to the works of their hands.
LAM 3:65 You shall recompense to them while shielding the trouble of my heart.
LAM 3:66 You shall pursue them in anger, and shall completely consume them beneath the heaven, O LORD.
LAM 4:1 O how the gold shall be darkened, and the good silver changed; holy stones were discharged at the top of all the streets,
LAM 4:2 even the esteemed sons of Zion being encouraged by gold, O how they are considered as earthenware receptacles, works of the hands of the potter.
LAM 4:3 And indeed, dragons stripped the breasts, they nursed their cubs; the daughters of my people were for irretrievability as a sparrow in the wilderness.
LAM 4:4 The tongue of one nursing cleaves to its throat in thirst. Infants ask for bread, there is not one snapping it for them.
LAM 4:5 The ones eating the delicacies were removed in the streets. The ones having been suckled in scarlet were embracing dung.
LAM 4:6 And the lawlessness of the daughter of my people was magnified over the lawlessness of Sodom, the place being eradicated as with promptness, and they toiled not in her hands.
LAM 4:7 Her Nazarites were clean; they radiated more than snow; they were purified more than milk. Their broken pieces were above stone of sapphire,
LAM 4:8 their appearance darkened above lamp black, they are not recognized in the streets; their skin was fixed against their bones; they are dried up; they were as wood.
LAM 4:9 Better were the ones slain by the broadsword than the ones slain by hunger; they went being pierced by want of produce of the fields.
LAM 4:10 The hands of pitying women boiled their children; they became for food to them in the destruction of the daughter of my people.
LAM 4:11 The LORD completed his rage; he poured out the rage of his anger, and lit a fire in Zion, and it devoured her foundations.
LAM 4:12 The kings of the earth believed not, all the ones inhabiting, the ones living, that an enemy and one afflicting shall enter through the gates of Jerusalem,
LAM 4:13 because of the sins of her prophets, and iniquities of her priests pouring out just blood in her midst.
LAM 4:14 Her watchmen were shaken in the streets; they were tainted with blood in their not being able; they touched their garments with it.
LAM 4:15 Separate from the unclean! Call them! Separate, separate, do not touch! For they were lit, and indeed, they were shaken. Speak among the nations! In no way should they proceed to sojourn.
LAM 4:16 The person of the LORD was their portion; he shall not proceed to look upon them. The person of the priests they received not; they did not show mercy on old men.
LAM 4:17 Yet in our being, our eyes failed. Our watching for our help was in vain. We watched unto a nation not delivering.
LAM 4:18 They hunted our small ones to not go into our squares. Our time approached; our days were fulfilled; our end is at hand.
LAM 4:19 The ones pursuing us were nimble, more than eagles of heaven. Upon the mountains they perched; in a wilderness they lie in wait for us.
LAM 4:20 The breath of our face, the anointed one Christ., the LORD was seized in our corruptions, of whom we said, In his shadow we shall live among the nations.
LAM 4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, the one dwelling upon the land of Uz! And indeed unto you shall go through the cup of the LORD. You shall be intoxicated, and shall pour forth.
LAM 4:22 Your lawlessness vanished, O daughter of Zion. He shall not proceed unto the resettling you. He visited your lawlessness, O daughter of Edom; he revealed concerning your acts of impiety.
LAM 5:1 Remember, O LORD, what happened to us! Look upon and behold our scorn!
LAM 5:2 Our inheritance was converted over to aliens; our houses to strangers.
LAM 5:3 We were orphans; there exists not a father; our mothers are as widows.
LAM 5:4 We drank our water for money; our wood came in barter.
LAM 5:5 Unto our neck we were pursued; we tired; we were not rested.
LAM 5:6 Egypt gave a hand; Assyria for their plenty.
LAM 5:7 Our fathers sinned, and they exist not. We underwent their violations of the law.
LAM 5:8 Servants lorded over us; there is not one ransoming from out of their hand.
LAM 5:9 With our lives we will carry in our bread from in front of the broadsword of the wilderness.
LAM 5:10 Our skin was darkened as an oven; they were made to shrivel from the face of blasts of famine.
LAM 5:11 They abased women in Zion; virgins in the cities of Judah.
LAM 5:12 Rulers were hanged by their hands; elders were not extolled;
LAM 5:13 chosen men took up weeping, and young men weakened in wood bearing;
LAM 5:14 and old men ceased from the gate; chosen men ceased from their psalms;
LAM 5:15 joy of our heart rested up; our dance turned into mourning;
LAM 5:16 the crown of our head fell; and woe to us for we sinned.
LAM 5:17 On account of this grief in our heart became grievous; on account of this our eyes darkened -
LAM 5:18 over mount Zion, for it was obliterated; foxes went through in it.
LAM 5:19 But you, O LORD, shall dwell into the eon; your throne is unto generation and generation.
LAM 5:20 Why for victory shall you forget us? Will you forsake us unto the duration of days?
LAM 5:21 Turn us to you, O LORD, and we shall be turned; and renew our days as before!
LAM 5:22 For in thrusting away, you thrusted us away; you were provoked to anger against us, unto exceedingly.
EZE 1:1 And it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, the fifth of the month, and I was in the midst of the captivity by the river Chebar, and the heavens were opened, and I beheld visions of God.
EZE 1:2 On the fifth of the month, this is the fifth year of the captivity of king Jehoiachin,
EZE 1:3 that the word of the LORD came to Ezekiel, the son of Buzi the priest, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of the LORD came upon me.
EZE 1:4 And I beheld, and behold, a wind lifting up came from the north, and a great cloud with it, and brightness round about it, and fire flashing. And in the midst of it was as a vision of molten bronze in the midst of the fire, and brightness in it.
EZE 1:5 And in the midst was as a likeness of four living creatures. And this is their vision - a likeness of a man was unto them.
EZE 1:6 And there were four faces to the one, and four wings to the one.
EZE 1:7 And their legs were straight; and their feet feathered; and there were sparks as flashing brass; and their wings were light.
EZE 1:8 And the hand of a man was beneath their wings upon their four parts; and their faces and their wings of the four were being next to the other of the other.
EZE 1:9 And their wings turned not in their proceeding; each went opposite their face.
EZE 1:10 And the likeness of their faces was as the face of a man, and a face of a lion from out of the right to the four; and the face of a calf from out of the left to the four; and the face of an eagle to the four.
EZE 1:11 And their wings were stretching out above; to the four each, two being yoked together to one another, and two covered up upon their body.
EZE 1:12 And each to the other went in front of him. Where ever the spirit was going, they went; and they turned not.
EZE 1:13 And in the midst of the living creatures was a vision as of coals of fire burning, as the appearance of lamps twisting in the midst of the living creatures; and brightness was of the fire, and from out of the fire went forth as lightning.
EZE 1:14 And the living creatures were running and returning as the appearance of the lightning.
EZE 1:15 And I beheld, and behold, one wheel was upon the earth being next to the living creatures, to the four.
EZE 1:16 And the sight of the wheels and their action was as the sight of Tharsis stone. And there was one likeness to the four; and their work was as if it may be a wheel in a wheel.
EZE 1:17 Upon their four parts they went; they turned not in their going,
EZE 1:18 and yet their backs and height was to them. And I beheld them, and their backs were full of eyes, round about to the four.
EZE 1:19 And in the going, the living creatures went - the wheels being next to them. And in the lifting away the living creatures from the earth, the wheels lifted away.
EZE 1:20 Where ever the cloud was, there the spirit was to go. And as the living creatures went, the wheels also lifted away with them; for spirit of life was in the wheels.
EZE 1:21 In their going, the wheels went; and in their standing, the wheels stood; and in their lifting away from the earth, the wheels lifted away with them; for spirit of life was in the wheels.
EZE 1:22 And the likeness above the head of the living creatures was as a firmament as the vision of ice, being stretched out over their wings on top.
EZE 1:23 And under the firmament their wings were stretching out flapping, the other to the other - to each two covering their bodies.
EZE 1:24 And I heard the sound of their wings in their going, as the sound of much water, as the sound of a worthy one in their going, a sound of the word, as a sound of a camp; and in their standing their wings rested.
EZE 1:25 And behold, a sound far above the firmament,
EZE 1:26 of the one being above their head, was as a vision of stone of sapphire, with a likeness of a throne upon it. And upon the likeness of the throne was a likeness as a form of a man from above.
EZE 1:27 And I beheld as an appearance of molten bronze, as a vision of fire within it round about, from the vision of the loin and up, and from the vision of the loin unto below, I beheld as a vision as of fire, and its brightness round about.
EZE 1:28 As the vision of a bow whenever it might be in the cloud in a day of rain, thus was the position of the brightness round about. This is the vision of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And I beheld, and I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice speaking.
EZE 2:1 And he said to me, O son of man, stand upon your feet, and I shall speak to you!
EZE 2:2 And came upon me a spirit. And it took me up, and lifted me away, and stood me upon my feet. And I heard him speaking to me.
EZE 2:3 And he said to me, O son of man, I shall send you to the sons of Israel rebelling against me. The ones who rebelled against me - they and their fathers disregarded me, until today's day.
EZE 2:4 And harsh and hard-hearted sons - I shall send you to them. And you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 2:5 If it is so that they should hearken or be terrified, (for it is a rebellious house,) yet shall they know that you are a prophet in the midst of them.
EZE 2:6 And you, O son of man, should not be afraid of them, nor be startled by their face, for they shall be heated, and shall rise up together against you round about. And you dwell in the midst of scorpions. You should not fear their words, and before their face you should not be startled, for it is a rebellious house.
EZE 2:7 And you shall speak my words to them, for surely they shall hear or be terrified; for it is a rebellious house.
EZE 2:8 And you, O son of man, hearken to the one speaking to you! Be not rebellious as the rebellious house! Gape wide your mouth, and eat what I give to you!
EZE 2:9 And I beheld, and behold, a hand stretched out to me, and in it a roll of a scroll.
EZE 2:10 And he unrolled it in my presence; and was in it things being written on the front and the rear. And it had written on it a lamentation, and a strain, and a woe.
EZE 3:1 And he said to me, O son of man, eat what ever you should find! Eat this roll, and go and speak to the sons of Israel!
EZE 3:2 And he opened wide my mouth, and fed me this roll.
EZE 3:3 And he said to me, O son of man, your mouth shall eat, and your belly shall be filled of this roll being given to you. And I ate it; and it became in my mouth as sweet honey.
EZE 3:4 And he said to me, O son of man, proceed and enter to the house of Israel, and speak my words to them!
EZE 3:5 For not as to a people of thick lips and speaking an unknown language are you sent to the house of Israel;
EZE 3:6 nor to many peoples of foreign languages, or foreign tongues, nor being dense in the tongue, whose words you hear not. But if to such I sent you, these would have listened to you.
EZE 3:7 But the house of Israel in no way shall want to listen to you; for they do not consent to listen to me. For all the house of Israel is contentious and hard-hearted.
EZE 3:8 And behold, I have imputed your face mighty against their faces; and your victory shall prevail against their victory.
EZE 3:9 And it shall be always more strong than a rock. You should not fear from them, nor should you be terrified before their face; for it is a rebellious house.
EZE 3:10 And he said to me, O son of man, all the words which I have spoken with you, take into your heart, and hearken with your ears!
EZE 3:11 And proceed, enter unto the captivity, to the sons of your people! And you shall speak to them, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, the LORD, Surely they shall hear, surely they shall give way.
EZE 3:12 And spirit took me up, and I heard from behind me a sound of a great quake, saying, Blessed be the glory of the LORD from out of his place.
EZE 3:13 And I heard a sound of the wings of the living creatures flapping one to the other, and the sound of the wheels next to them, and the sound of the great quake.
EZE 3:14 And the spirit lifted me away, and took me, and I went elevated by impulse of my spirit; and the hand of the LORD came fortified upon me.
EZE 3:15 And I entered to the captivity elevated; and I went around the ones dwelling by the river Chebar, the ones being there. And I stayed there seven days, behaving in the midst of them.
EZE 3:16 And it came to pass after the seven days, and the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 3:17 O son of man, I have appointed you watchman to the house of Israel; and you shall hear the word from out of my mouth, and shall threaten them by me.
EZE 3:18 In my saying to the lawless one, To death you shall be put to death; and you do not give orders to him, nor spoke to give orders to the lawless one, to turn from his unjust ways, so that he should live; that lawless one shall die in his iniquity; but his blood I shall require from out of your hand.
EZE 3:19 And if you should give orders to the lawless one, and he should not turn from his lawlessness, nor his unjust way, that lawless one shall die in his iniquity; and you shall rescue your soul.
EZE 3:20 And in the just one turning from his righteousness, and should commit a transgression, and I give torment to his face, and he dies, but you did not give orders to him; then in his sins he dies, for in no way shall his righteousness be remembered which he did; but his blood I shall require from out of your hand.
EZE 3:21 But if you give orders to the just one to not sin, and he should not sin, the just one shall live to life, for you warned him; and you shall have rescued your own soul.
EZE 3:22 And the hand of the LORD came to pass there upon me; and he said to me, Rise up, and go forth into the plain, and there it shall be spoken to you!
EZE 3:23 And I rose up, and went forth to the plain. And behold, there the glory of the LORD stood, as the glory which I beheld by the river Chebar. And I fell upon my face.
EZE 3:24 And spirit came upon me, and stood me upon my feet, and spoke to me, and said to me, Enter, and be locked up in the midst of your house!
EZE 3:25 And you, O son of man, behold, bonds were appointed for you, and they shall tie you with them, and in no way shall you come forth from the midst of them.
EZE 3:26 And I shall tie your tongue to your throat, and you shall become mute, and you will not be to them for a man reproving; for it is a rebellious house.
EZE 3:27 And in my speaking to you, I shall open your mouth, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord the LORD, The one hearing, let him hear! And the one resisting persuasion, let him resist persuasion! For it is a rebellious house!
EZE 4:1 And you, O son of man, take unto yourself a brick! And you shall put it before your face, and shall diagram upon it the city of Jerusalem.
EZE 4:2 And you shall put an encompassment about against it; and you shall build battlements against it; and you shall put around upon it a siege mound; and you shall put camps upon it; and shall order the range of weapons round about.
EZE 4:3 And you, take to yourself a frying pan of iron! And you shall make it a wall of iron between you and between the city. And you shall prepare your face against it, and it will be for a siege - and you shall besiege it. This is a sign to the sons of Israel.
EZE 4:4 And you shall go to sleep upon your left side, and you shall put the iniquities of the house of Israel upon it; according to the number of the days which you shall sleep upon it, that you shall take their iniquities.
EZE 4:5 And I have appointed to you the two things for their iniquities for a number of days - ninety and three hundred days; and you shall take the iniquities of the house of Israel.
EZE 4:6 And you shall complete these, and then go to sleep upon your right side, and you shall take the iniquities of the house of Judah - forty days; a day for a year is established to you.
EZE 4:7 And for the siege of Jerusalem you shall prepare your face, and shall stiffen your arm, and shall prophesy against it.
EZE 4:8 And I, behold, I have appointed for you bonds, and you shall not be turned from your one side unto your other side, until of which time the days of your siege should be completed.
EZE 4:9 And you, take to yourself wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and wild oats, and put them into one earthenware container, and make them into breads for yourself! And according to the number of the days which you slept upon your side, ninety and three hundred days, you shall eat them.
EZE 4:10 And your food which you shall eat by weight is twenty shekels a day - from time to time you shall eat them.
EZE 4:11 And you shall drink water by measure, the sixth of the hin. You shall drink from time to time.
EZE 4:12 And a cake baked in hot ashes of barley - you shall eat them baked in dung. You shall hide them in the coals of the dung of a human before their eyes.
EZE 4:13 Thus says the LORD God of Israel; So shall the sons of Israel eat unclean among the nations, into which I cast them.
EZE 4:14 And I said, By no means, O LORD God of Israel, since my soul has not been defiled in uncleanness; and I have not eaten decaying flesh and that taken by wild beasts from my birth until the present; nor has any profane meat entered into my mouth.
EZE 4:15 And he said to me, Behold, I give to you dung of oxen instead of the dung of humans, and you shall make breads upon them.
EZE 4:16 And he said to me, O son of man, behold, I shall break the reliance of bread in Jerusalem. And they shall eat bread by weight, and in lack; and they shall drink water by measure and unto extinction;
EZE 4:17 so that they should be lacking of bread and water, and a man and his brother shall be obliterated, and shall be melted away in their iniquities.
EZE 5:1 And you, O son of man, take to yourself a sharp broadsword for a razor of a barber! You shall acquire it to yourself, and you shall bring it upon your head, and upon your beard. And you shall take a yoke balance scale of weights, and you shall part them.
EZE 5:2 A fourth part you shall kindle in fire in the middle of the city, according to the fullness of the days of the siege. And you shall take a fourth part and shall incinerate it in the midst of it. And a fourth part you shall cut in pieces with the broadsword round about it. And a fourth part you shall disperse to the wind; for I shall empty out a sword after them.
EZE 5:3 And you shall take from there a few in number, and shall wrap them in your wrapping.
EZE 5:4 And from out of these you shall take still more, and shall toss them into the midst of the fire, and shall incinerate them by fire; and fire shall come forth from it. And you shall say to all the house of Israel,
EZE 5:5 Thus says Adonai the LORD, This is Jerusalem; I have placed her in the midst of the nations, and the ones round about her place.
EZE 5:6 And you shall tell of my ordinances to the lawless one of the nations, and my laws to the lawless of the places round about her; for they thrust away my ordinances, and in my laws they went not by them.
EZE 5:7 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Because your opportunity for lawlessness is from the nations round about you, and in my laws you went not, and my ordinances you observed not, but neither according to the ordinances of the nations round about you, you observed not;
EZE 5:8 on account of this thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I am against you, and I shall execute judgment in the midst of you before the nations.
EZE 5:9 And I shall do among you what I have not done, and I shall not do likened to them again against all your abominations.
EZE 5:10 On account of this, fathers shall eat the children in your midst, and children shall eat fathers. And I shall execute judgments among you, and shall scatter all the rest of you unto every wind.
EZE 5:11 On account of this, as I live, says Adonai the LORD; Assuredly, because you defiled my holy things in all your loathsome things, and in all your abominations, I also thrust you away - my eye will not spare, and I shall not show mercy.
EZE 5:12 The fourth part of you shall be consumed by plague; and a fourth part of you shall be finished off by famine in your midst; and a fourth part of you will be dispersed unto every wind; and a fourth part of you shall fall by the broadsword round about you; and a sword I shall empty out after them.
EZE 5:13 And my rage shall be exhausted, and my anger against them. And I shall enjoin, and you shall know, for I the LORD have spoken in my zeal in my exhausting my anger against them.
EZE 5:14 And I shall make you into a wilderness, even your daughters round about you, in the presence of all traveling through.
EZE 5:15 And you will be bemoaned and wretched among the nations round about you, in my executing among you judgments in anger and in rage, and in vengeance of rage. I the LORD have spoken.
EZE 5:16 In my sending the arrows of famine upon them, then they will be in want, and I shall send them to ruin you. And I shall gather famine unto you, and shall break the reliance of your bread.
EZE 5:17 And I shall send out against you famine and ferocious wild beasts, and I shall punish you; and plague and blood shall go through upon you; and a sword I shall bring upon you. I the LORD have spoken.
EZE 6:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 6:2 O son of man, fix your face upon the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them!
EZE 6:3 And you shall say, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of Adonai the LORD! Thus says Adonai the LORD to the mountains, and to the hills, and to the ravines, and to the groves; Behold, I bring upon you a broadsword, and your high places will be utterly destroyed.
EZE 6:4 And your altars and your sacred precincts will be broken down. And I will throw down your slain before your idols.
EZE 6:5 And I shall offer the corpses of the sons of Israel in front of their idols. And I shall scatter your bones round about your altars.
EZE 6:6 In all your house the cities shall be made quite desolate, and the high places shall be obliterated, so that your altars shall be utterly destroyed, and your idols shall be broken and caused to cease, and your sacred precincts shall be lifted away, and your works shall be wiped away.
EZE 6:7 And slain ones shall fall in your midst, and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 6:8 And I shall leave behind some in the taking place of your ones escaping from the broadsword among the nations, and in your being dispersed in the places.
EZE 6:9 And the ones escaping of yours shall remember me among the nations of which they were taken captive there. I have sworn against their heart, against the one fornicating from me; and with their eyes fornicating after their practices. And they shall smite against their faces for the evils which they did in all their abominations.
EZE 6:10 And they shall realize that I the LORD have not spoken to do all these evils against them for nothing.
EZE 6:11 Thus says the LORD, Clap with the hand, and stamp with the foot, and say, Well done, over all the abominations of the house of Israel! By the broadsword, and by plague, and by famine they shall fall.
EZE 6:12 The one far away shall come to an end by plague. And the one near shall fall by the broadsword. And the one being left behind, and the one being compassed by siege will be finished off by famine. And I shall exhaust my anger against them.
EZE 6:13 And you shall know that I am the LORD in your slain being in the midst of your idols round about your altars, upon every high hill, and on all the tops of the mountains, and underneath every shady tree, underneath every bushy oak, of which they offered there a scent of pleasant aroma to all their idols.
EZE 6:14 And I shall stretch out my hand against them, and shall make the land for extinction; even from the wilderness of Diblath for ruin, of all their habitation. And you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 7:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 7:2 And you, O son of man, thus says Adonai the LORD to the land of Israel; End is come - the end is come upon the four wings of the land.
EZE 7:3 The end is come now - the end to you. And I shall send my rage. I am against you, and I shall punish you in your ways, and I shall impute against you all your abominations.
EZE 7:4 My eye will not spare over you, nor shall I show mercy. For I shall impute your way against you, and your abominations will be in the midst of you. And you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 7:5 For thus says Adonai the LORD, An evil, one evil, behold, it is at hand.
EZE 7:6 The end is come, the end is come awakened against you.
EZE 7:7 Behold, the wreathen circle is come upon you, the one dwelling the land. The time is come, the day has approached, not with tumult nor with pangs.
EZE 7:8 Now nearly I will pour out my anger upon you, and I will complete my rage against you. And I will judge you in your ways, and I will impute against you all your abominations.
EZE 7:9 My eye shall not spare, nor shall I show mercy. According to your ways I will impute against you, and your abominations will be in your midst; and you shall realize that I am the LORD, the one striking.
EZE 7:10 Behold, the day of the LORD is come, the rod has bloomed.
EZE 7:11 The insolence has risen up, and it will break the reliance of the lawless one, and not with a tumult nor with anxiety.
EZE 7:12 The time is come, behold, the day. Let not the one acquiring things rejoice, and let not the one selling things wail, for there is wrath for all the magnitude of it!
EZE 7:13 For the one acquiring shall not return to the thing selling; and yet still in the life of their living, for the vision is for all their multitude - it shall not return; and a man in the eyes shall not hold his life.
EZE 7:14 Trump with the trumpet, and judge all things! But there is not one going to the war, for my wrath is upon all her multitude.
EZE 7:15 The broadsword from outside, and the famine and the plague from inside. The one in the plain shall come to an end by a broadsword; and the ones in the city shall end by famine and plague.
EZE 7:16 And the ones escaping of them shall be escaped, and will be upon the mountains as a pigeon meditating. And I will kill all, each in his iniquities.
EZE 7:17 All hands shall be enfeebled, and all thighs shall be tainted in wetness.
EZE 7:18 And they shall gird on sackcloths, and stupefaction shall cover them. And upon every face shame will be upon them, and upon every head baldness.
EZE 7:19 Their silver shall be tossed in the squares, and their gold shall be spurned. Their silver and their gold shall not be able to rescue them in a day of wrath of the LORD. Their souls in no way shall be satisfied, and their bellies shall not be filled; for the torment of their iniquities took place.
EZE 7:20 A choice ornament for pride - they made them; and images of their abominations they made from them. Because of this I have given them to them for uncleanness.
EZE 7:21 And I will deliver them into the hands of strangers to tear them in pieces, and to the pestilent ones of the earth for spoils. And they shall profane them.
EZE 7:22 And I will turn my face from them, and they shall defile my overseeing; and they shall enter to them unguardedly, and profane them.
EZE 7:23 And they shall produce befouling; for the land is full of judgments of blood, and the city full of lawlessness. And I will bring evils of nations, and they shall inherit their houses.
EZE 7:24 And I will turn the neighing of their strength; and their holy things shall be defiled.
EZE 7:25 Making an atonement shall come, and one shall seek peace, and it will not be.
EZE 7:26 Woe upon woe will be, and message upon message will be; and a vision shall be sought from a prophet; and the law shall be lost of the priest, and counsel from the elders. The king shall mourn,
EZE 7:27 and the ruler shall put on extinction, and the hands of the people of the land shall be disabled. According to their ways I will do to them, and in their judgments I will punish them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 8:1 And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, the fifth of the month, I was sitting in my house, and the elders of Judah were sitting down before me, and came upon me the hand of Adonai the LORD.
EZE 8:2 And I beheld, and behold, a likeness of a man - from his loin, and unto below as fire; and from his loin and above him as the vision of brightness, as an appearance of molten bronze.
EZE 8:3 And he stretched out a likeness of a hand, and took me up by the decorative hem of my top. And spirit took me in between the earth and between the heaven, and led me unto Jerusalem in a vision of God, unto the thresholds of the inner gate looking to the north; of which was the monument of the acquirer.
EZE 8:4 And behold, glory of the LORD God of Israel was there, according to the vision which I beheld in the plain.
EZE 8:5 And he said to me, O son of man, look up with your eyes towards the north. And I looked up with my eyes towards the north, and behold, from the north at the gate towards the east of the altar was the image of jealousy; this was in the entering it.
EZE 8:6 And he said to me, O son of man, do you see what these do? the great lawless deeds which the house of Israel does here, to keep at a distance from my holy places? And still you shall see greater lawless deeds.
EZE 8:7 And he brought me unto the thresholds of the courtyard; and I saw, and behold, one opening in the wall.
EZE 8:8 And he said to me, O son of man, dig in the wall! And I dug in the wall, and behold a door.
EZE 8:9 And he said to me, Enter, and see the evil lawless deeds which these do here!
EZE 8:10 And I entered and saw; and behold every likeness of a crawling thing, and a beast, vain abominations, and all the idols of the house of Israel, being diagramed upon the wall round about wholly.
EZE 8:11 And seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, and Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan was standing before their face; and each had his incense pan in the hand; and the vapor of the incense ascended.
EZE 8:12 And he said to me, You have seen, O son of man, what the elders of the house of Israel do in darkness, each of them in their hidden room; for they said, the LORD sees not; the LORD has abandoned the earth.
EZE 8:13 And he said to me, Still you will see greater lawless deeds which these do.
EZE 8:14 And he brought me unto the thresholds of the gate of the house of the LORD looking towards the north. And behold, there women were sitting down wailing Tammuz.
EZE 8:15 And he said to me, You have seen, O son of man, and still you shall see greater practices than these.
EZE 8:16 And he brought me into the courtyard of the house of the LORD, the inner courtyard. And upon the thresholds of the temple of the LORD, between the columned porch and between the altar, were about twenty and five men with their posteriors towards the temple of the LORD, and their faces before the east. And these did obeisance according to the east, to the sun.
EZE 8:17 And he said to me, You have seen, O son of man. Is it a small thing to the house of Judah to commit the lawless deeds which they have done here? for they filled the land of lawlessness, and returned to provoke me to anger. And behold, these stretch out the vine branch as ones sneering.
EZE 8:18 And I shall deal with them with rage. My eye shall not spare, nor shall I show mercy. And should they call in my ears with a great voice, even I will not listen to them.
EZE 9:1 And he shouted aloud into my ears with a great voice, saying, The punishment of the city has approached. And each had the items for the devastation in his hand.
EZE 9:2 And behold, six men were coming from the way of the high gate, the one looking to the north; and each had a hewing axe for devastation in his hand. And one man in the midst of them was clothed in a foot length robe, and there was a belt of sapphire upon his loin. And they entered and stood next to the altar of brass.
EZE 9:3 And the glory of the God of Israel ascended from the cherubim, (the glory being upon them,) into the open air of the house. And he called the man being clothed with the foot length robe, who had the belt upon his loin.
EZE 9:4 And the LORD said to him, Go through the midst of the city, and the midst of Jerusalem, and put the sign upon the foreheads of the men groaning, and of the ones being grievously afflicted over all the lawless deeds taking place in the midst of them!
EZE 9:5 And he said to these in my hearing, Go into the city behind him and smite, and spare not your eyes! And you should not show mercy.
EZE 9:6 An older man, and a young man, and a virgin, and infants, and women - kill unto wiping out! But upon all upon whom there is the sign you should not approach. And begin from my holy places! And they began with the men of the elders who were inside in the house.
EZE 9:7 And he said to them, Defile the house, and fill the ways of dead ones, and smite the ones going forth!
EZE 9:8 And it came to pass in their smiting, that I fell upon my face, and I yelled out, and said, Alas, Adonai, O LORD, do you wipe away the remnant of Israel in the pouring out of your rage upon Jerusalem?
EZE 9:9 And he said to me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah has been magnified very exceedingly. For the land was filled of many peoples, and the city was filled with iniquity and uncleanness. For they say, The LORD has abandoned the land; the LORD inspects not.
EZE 9:10 And my eye shall not spare, nor shall I show mercy. I have imputed their ways against their heads.
EZE 9:11 And behold, the man being clothed with the foot length robe, and having the belt tied around his loin, even answered saying, I have done as you gave charge to me.
EZE 10:1 And I beheld, and behold, upon the firmament above the head of the cherubim was a likeness of a throne of sapphire stone over them.
EZE 10:2 And he said to the man clothed by the robe, Enter into the midst of the wheels underneath the cherubim, and fill your hands full of coals of fire from out of the midst of the cherubim, and scatter them upon the city! And he entered before me.
EZE 10:3 And the cherubim stood at the right of the house, in the entering of the man; and the cloud filled the inner courtyard.
EZE 10:4 And the glory of the LORD departed from the cherubim into the open air of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the courtyard was filled of the brightness of the glory of the LORD.
EZE 10:5 And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard unto the outer courtyard, as the sound of God Saddai speaking.
EZE 10:6 And it came to pass in his giving charge to the man being clothed in the holy robe, saying, Take fire from out of the midst of the wheels, from the place between the cherubim! that he entered. and stood next to the wheels.
EZE 10:7 And the cherub stretched out his hand into the midst of the fire being in the midst of the cherubim. And he took, and put it into the hands of the one being clothed by the holy robe. And he took it and came forth.
EZE 10:8 And I beheld the cherubim having likenesses of hands of men from beneath their wings.
EZE 10:9 And I beheld, and behold, four wheels stood next to the cherubim, one wheel being next to one cherub, and one wheel being next to one cherub. And the appearance of the wheels was as the appearance of carbuncle stone.
EZE 10:10 And their appearance was as the likeness one to the four, in which manner whenever a wheel might be in the midst of a wheel.
EZE 10:11 In their going, they went in their four parts; they turned not in their going; for unto which ever place the one head looked, they went behind it, and turned not in their going.
EZE 10:12 And all their flesh, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes round about to the four wheels of them.
EZE 10:13 And these wheels were called Gelgel in my hearing.
EZE 10:14 And there were four faces to the one. The face of the one was the face of the cherub, and the second face was a face of a man, and the third face a lion, and the fourth face an eagle.
EZE 10:15 And the cherubim departed. This is the living creature which I saw by the river Chebar.
EZE 10:16 And in the cherubim going, the wheels went, and these were next to them. And in the lifting away of the cherubim, of their wings to raise up on high from the earth, their wheels turned not; and indeed they were by the ones next to them.
EZE 10:17 In their standing, their wheels stood; and in their rising up on high, the wheels rose up on high with them; for spirit of life was in them.
EZE 10:18 And the glory of the LORD went forth from the open air of the house, and mounted upon the cherubim.
EZE 10:19 And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and rose up on high from the earth before me in their going forth. And the wheels were next to them. And they stood upon the thresholds of the gate of the house of the LORD in front. And the glory of the God of Israel was upon them up above.
EZE 10:20 This is the living creature which I saw underneath the God of Israel by the river Chebar; and I knew that they are cherubim.
EZE 10:21 Four faces to the one, and four wings to the one; and having a likeness of hands of men from beneath their wings.
EZE 10:22 And the likeness of their faces - these are the faces which I saw underneath the glory of the God of Israel by the river Chebar, in the vision of them. And these - each of them went according to their face.
EZE 11:1 And spirit took me up, and led me unto the gate of the house of the LORD, over against the one looking according to the east. And behold, upon the threshold of the gate were about twenty and five men. And I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, the ones guiding the people.
EZE 11:2 And he said to me, O son of man, these are the men considering vain things, and deliberating evil counsel in this city.
EZE 11:3 The ones saying, Have they not recently built the houses? This is the kettle, and we are the meats.
EZE 11:4 On account of this, prophesy against them! Prophesy, O son of man!
EZE 11:5 And there fell upon me spirit of the LORD. And he said to me, You say! Thus says the LORD; As you said, O house of Israel, and the deliberations of your spirit I have knowledge of.
EZE 11:6 You multiplied your dead in this city, and you filled up her ways of slain ones.
EZE 11:7 On account of this thus says Adonai the LORD; Your dead whom you struck in the midst of her, these are the meats, and she is the kettle. And you I will lead out from the midst of her.
EZE 11:8 You fear the broadsword; then the broadsword I will bring upon you, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 11:9 And I will lead you from out of the midst of her, and will deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.
EZE 11:10 By the broadsword you shall fall; upon the borders of Israel I will judge you; and you will realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 11:11 She shall not be to you for a kettle, and you in no way shall become in the midst of her for meat.
EZE 11:12 Unto the borders of Israel I will judge you, and you shall know that I am the LORD. For in my commandments you went not, and of my judgments you went not, and according to the judgments of the nations around you you went.
EZE 11:13 And it came to pass in my prophesying, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. And I fell upon my face, and I yelled out with a great voice, and said, Alas, Adonai O LORD, unto consummation do you appoint the remnant of Israel?
EZE 11:14 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 11:15 O son of man, your brothers, and the men of your captivity, and all the house of Israel have come to completion, about whom the ones dwelling in Jerusalem said to them, You are far at a distance from the LORD; the land has been given to us for an inheritance.
EZE 11:16 On account of this, you say! Thus says Adonai the LORD, that, I will thrust them into the nations, and will disperse them into every land, and will be to them for a small sanctuary in the places where ever they shall enter there.
EZE 11:17 On account of this, you say! Thus says Adonai the LORD, that, I will take them from out of the nations, and I will gather them from out of the places of which I scattered them among them, and I will give to them the land of Israel.
EZE 11:18 And they shall enter there, and shall lift away all her abominations, and all her lawless deeds from out of her.
EZE 11:19 And I will give to them another heart, and I will put a new spirit in them; and I will pull out the stone heart from their flesh, and will give to them a heart of flesh;
EZE 11:20 so that they shall go by my orders, and shall guard my ordinances, and shall execute them. And they will be to me for a people, and I will be to them for God.
EZE 11:21 And for the heart of their abominations, and of their lawlessnesses, as their heart went, I have imputed their ways against their heads, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 11:22 And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were next to them; and the glory of the God of Israel was upon them, up above them.
EZE 11:23 And the glory of the LORD ascended from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which was before the city.
EZE 11:24 And spirit took me up, and led me into the land of the Chaldeans, unto the captivity, in a vision by spirit of God. And I ascended from the vision which I beheld.
EZE 11:25 And I spoke to the captivity all the words of the LORD which he showed to me.
EZE 12:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 12:2 O son of man, you dwell in the midst of their iniquities, the ones who have eyes to see, and see not; and have ears to hear, and hear not. For it is a rebelling house.
EZE 12:3 And you, O son of man, prepare for yourself items of captivity, and be as captured by day in their presence! And you shall be as captured from out of your place into another place before them, so that they should see, for it is a rebelling house.
EZE 12:4 And you shall bring forth your items, items for a day of captivity before their eyes. And you shall go forth at evening before them, as a captive goes forth before them.
EZE 12:5 Dig yourself into the wall, and you shall go completely through it!
EZE 12:6 You shall be taken up before them upon a shoulder, and you shall go forth being hidden. You shall cover up your face, and in no way should you behold the ground. For I have put you as a portent to the house of Israel.
EZE 12:7 And I did thus according to all as much as he gave charge to me. And I brought forth items for the day of captivity, and at evening I dug through the wall myself by hand; and being hidden I came forth; I was taken up upon a shoulder in the presence of them.
EZE 12:8 And the word of the LORD came to me in the morning, saying,
EZE 12:9 O son of man, said not to you the house of Israel, the rebelling house, What are you doing?
EZE 12:10 Say to them, Thus says Adonai the LORD; To the ruler and one guiding in Jerusalem, even to all the house of Israel who are in the midst of them.
EZE 12:11 Say that, I do portents. In which manner I have done, so will it be to them - unto displacement and in captivity they shall go.
EZE 12:12 And the ruler in the midst of them shall be lifted upon a shoulder. And being hid he shall come forth through the wall, and he shall dig through to come forth himself through it. He shall cover up his face, so that he should not be seen by an eye, and he shall not see the ground.
EZE 12:13 And I will spread forth my net upon him, and he shall be seized in my encompassing about. And I will lead him into Babylon, into the land of Chaldeans. And he shall not see it, and he shall come to an end there.
EZE 12:14 And all the ones round about him, his helpers, and all the ones assisting him, I will scatter to all the wind; and I will pour out a broadsword after them.
EZE 12:15 And they shall know that I am the LORD, in my scattering them among the nations. And I will scatter them in the places.
EZE 12:16 And I will leave of them a few men in number from the broadsword, and from famine, and from plague; so even they may tell in detail all their lawless deeds among the nations of which they entered there; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 12:17 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 12:18 O son of man, you shall eat your bread with grief, and you shall drink your water with torment and affliction.
EZE 12:19 And you shall say to the people of the land, Thus says Adonai the LORD, to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem upon the land of Israel; They shall eat their breads with lack, and shall drink their water with obliteration, so that the land should be extinct with her fullness in impiety of all the ones dwelling in her.
EZE 12:20 And their cities being dwelt in shall be made quite desolate, and the land will be for extinction; and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 12:21 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 12:22 O son of man, what is this parable to you concerning the land of Israel, saying, The days are far off, all vision has perished?
EZE 12:23 On account of this, say to them! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Even I will turn back this parable, and no longer should the house of Israel speak this parable; for you shall say to them, The days have approached, and the matter of every vision.
EZE 12:24 For there will not be any more any false vision, nor one using oracles for favor in the midst of the sons of Israel.
EZE 12:25 For I the LORD will speak my words, and I will act, and I will not lengthen the time still. For in your days, O rebelling house, I shall speak the word, and I will act, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 12:26 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 12:27 O son of man, behold, the house of Israel, rebelling. In saying they say, The vision which this man sees is for many days, and this one prophesies for long times.
EZE 12:28 On account of this say to them! Thus says Adonai the LORD; I shall not lengthen any longer all my words which ever I should speak, for I shall speak a word, and I shall act, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 13:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 13:2 Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel prophesying! And you shall speak to the prophets prophesying from their own heart. And you shall prophesy, and shall say to them, Hear the word of the LORD!
EZE 13:3 Thus says Adonai the LORD; Woe to the ones prophesying from their own heart, to the ones going after their own spirit, and altogether they do not see.
EZE 13:4 As foxes in the desolate places, so are your prophets, O Israel.
EZE 13:5 They stood not in firmness, and they gathered not flocks unto the house of Israel. They rose not up in war, the ones saying, In the day of the LORD.
EZE 13:6 Ones seeing false visions, using vain oracles; the ones saying, Thus says the LORD; and the LORD has not sent them. And they began to raise up a false word.
EZE 13:7 Have you not seen a false vision, and spoken vain divinations? And you speak, says the LORD, and I spoke not.
EZE 13:8 On account of this, say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because your words are false, and your divinations vain, on account of this, behold, I am against you, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 13:9 And I will stretch out my hand against the prophets seeing false visions, and the ones declaring vain things in instruction of my people. They will not be, nor they shall not be written among the writing of the house of Israel, and into the land of Israel they shall not enter; and they shall know that I am Adonai the LORD.
EZE 13:10 Because they misled my people, saying, Peace, and there was not peace. And this one builds a wall, and they plaster it - it shall fall.
EZE 13:11 Say to the ones plastering it, that, It shall fall, and there shall be flooding rain; and I will appoint rock throwing stones against their chambers, and they shall fall; and a removing wind, and it shall be broken asunder.
EZE 13:12 And behold, the wall has fallen. And they shall not say to you, Where is your plaster by which you plastered it?
EZE 13:13 On account of this, Thus says Adonai the LORD, that, I will tear forth a removing breath with rage, and there will be a flooding rain in my anger, and the stones for rock throwing in rage I will bring unto completion.
EZE 13:14 And I will raze the wall which you plastered, and it shall fall. And I will put it upon the ground, and its foundations shall be uncovered, and it shall fall. And you shall be exhausted with reproofs; and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 13:15 And I will exhaust my rage against the wall, and upon the ones plastering it, and it shall fall. And I said to you, The wall is not, nor the ones plastering it -
EZE 13:16 the prophets of Israel prophesying against Jerusalem, and the ones seeing her peace, and there is not a peace, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 13:17 And you, O son of man, firmly fix your face against the daughters of your people prophesying from their own heart! And you prophesy against them!
EZE 13:18 And you shall say, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Woe to the women sewing together pillows under every elbow of the hand, and making coverings for every head of every stature to pervert souls. The souls are perverted of my people, and they protected souls.
EZE 13:19 And they profaned me before my people for a handful of barley, and for pieces of breads, to kill the souls who must not die, and to protect souls who must not live, in you declaring to a people listening to vain maxims.
EZE 13:20 On account of this, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I am against your pillows upon which you confederate souls there; and I will tear them from your arms, and I will send out the souls whom you distorted their souls for dispersing.
EZE 13:21 And I will tear up your coverings, and I will rescue my people from out of your hand, and no longer will they be in your hands for a confederacy; and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 13:22 Because you pervert the heart of the just one wrongfully, and I did not pervert him; and you strengthened the hands of the lawless one altogether, to not turn him from his evil way, so as to enliven him;
EZE 13:23 because of this, in no way shall you see false visions, and in no way shall you divine divinations still. And I will rescue my people from out of your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 14:1 And there came to me men from the elders of the people of Israel, and they sat before my face.
EZE 14:2 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
EZE 14:3 Son of man, these men set their thoughts in their hearts, and set the punishment of their iniquities before their face. Shall in answering I answer them?
EZE 14:4 On account of this, speak to them! And you shall say to them, Thus says Adonai the LORD; A man, a man from out of the house of Israel who ever should put his considerations upon his heart, and should arrange punishment for his iniquities before his face, and should come to the false prophet, I the LORD will answer to him by them, in the things which are kept within his mind,
EZE 14:5 so that he should bend away the house of Israel according to their hearts, the ones being separated from me in their thoughts.
EZE 14:6 Because of this, say to the house of Israel! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Return, and turn away from your practices, and from all your impious deeds; and turn your faces!
EZE 14:7 For a man, a man from the house of Israel, and from the foreigners of the ones converting in Israel, who ever should separate from me, and set his thoughts upon his heart, and should arrange punishment for his iniquities before his face, and should come to the false prophet to ask him concerning me, I the LORD will answer to him in the things which he presses in them.
EZE 14:8 And I will firmly fix my face against that man, and I will appoint him for a desolate place and for extinction. And I will lift him away from the midst of my people; and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 14:9 And the prophet, if he should be mislead, and should say a word, I the LORD have misled that prophet; and I will stretch out my hand against him, and I will remove him from out of the midst of my people Israel.
EZE 14:10 And they shall bear their iniquity according to the offence - of the one asking, likewise also the offence of the prophet it will be;
EZE 14:11 so that the house of Israel should not be misled still away from me, and that they should not be defiled still in all their transgressions; and they will be to me for a people, and I will be to them for God, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 14:12 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 14:13 O son of man, a land, if it should sin against me to fall into transgression, then I shall stretch out my hand against it, and I will break its reliance on bread, and I will send upon it famine, and I will lift away man and beast from it.
EZE 14:14 And if these three men might be in the midst of it, Noah, and Daniel, and Job, these in their righteousness shall be delivered, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 14:15 And if I bring ferocious wild beasts upon the land, and punish it, and it shall be for extinction, and there shall not be one traveling through because of the countenance of the wild beasts,
EZE 14:16 and these three men were in the midst of it; as I live, says Adonai the LORD, shall sons or daughters be delivered? Only these alone shall be delivered, but the land will be for ruin.
EZE 14:17 Or even if I bring a broadsword against that land, and I should say, Let the broadsword go through the land! Then I shall lift away from out of them man and beast.
EZE 14:18 And if these three men were in the midst of it, as I live, says Adonai the LORD, that in no way shall sons nor daughters be rescued, but these alone shall be delivered.
EZE 14:19 Or also if I should send a plague as a successor upon that land, and I shall pour out my rage upon it in blood, to utterly destroy from out of it man and beast,
EZE 14:20 and Noah, and Daniel, and Job be in the midst of it, as I live, says Adonai the LORD, neither sons or daughters shall be delivered, but they in their righteousness shall rescue their souls.
EZE 14:21 Thus says Adonai the LORD; But if also my four punishments - the ferocious broadsword, and famine, and ferocious wild beasts, and plague, I should send out upon Jerusalem to utterly destroy from out of it man and beast;
EZE 14:22 yet behold, these being left behind in her, the ones escaping from her, who shall lead out of her sons and daughters; behold, they shall go forth to you, and you shall see their ways, and their thoughts; and you shall be repentant over the hurts which I brought upon Jerusalem, for all which I brought upon her,
EZE 14:23 that they shall comfort you, for you shall see theirs ways, and their thoughts; and you shall realize that I have not done all in vain as much as I did by her, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 15:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 15:2 And you, O son of man, what ever may become of the wood of the vine from out of all the woods of the branches being in the woods of the forest?
EZE 15:3 Shall they take of its wood to perform for work? Shall they take from out of it stanchions to hang all items upon it?
EZE 15:4 Behold, fire is given for consumption yearly; in the cleansing of it the fire consumes, and the wood vanishes in the end. Shall it be profitable for work?
EZE 15:5 Not even of it still being whole - it will not be useful for work; should that if also the fire should consume it unto completion, shall it be made for work?
EZE 15:6 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD, In which manner the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given it to the fire for consumption, so I have given the ones dwelling in Jerusalem.
EZE 15:7 And I will put my face against them; from out of the fire they shall come forth, and fire shall devour them; and they shall know that I am the LORD in my firmly fixing my face against them.
EZE 15:8 And I will appoint the land for extinction, because they fell into transgression, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 16:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 16:2 O son of man, testify to Jerusalem of her lawless deeds!
EZE 16:3 And you shall say, Thus says Adonai the LORD to Jerusalem; Your root and your birth are from out of the land of Canaan. Your father was an Amorite, and your mother a Hittite.
EZE 16:4 And concerning your birth - in which day you were born your naval was not severed, and you were not bathed in water for safety, nor were you salted with salt, and were not swaddled in swaddling-cloths;
EZE 16:5 nor did my eye spare over you to do for you one of all of these things, to suffer anything for you. And you were thrown away upon the face of the plain because of the deformity of your life, in the day you were birthed.
EZE 16:6 And I went unto you, and I beheld you being befouled in your blood. And I said to you from out of your blood - Live! Even I said to you with your blood - Life.
EZE 16:7 Be multiplied, I have made you as the rising of the field! And you were multiplied, and magnified, and entered into cities of cities. Your breasts erected, and your hair rose up, but you were naked and indecent.
EZE 16:8 And I went by you, and beheld you, and behold, it was your time, and a time of resting up. And I opened and spread out my wings over you, and covered your indecency, and swore an oath to you, and entered into a covenant with you, says Adonai the LORD, and you became mine.
EZE 16:9 And I bathed you in water, and washed your blood from you, and anointed you with oil.
EZE 16:10 And I clothed you in colored garments, and tied on you blue cloth, and tied linen around you, and put around you a braided belt.
EZE 16:11 And I adorned you with ornamentation, and put bracelets around your hands, and a necklace around your neck.
EZE 16:12 And I gave a ring for your nose, and disks for your ears, and a crown of boasting for your head.
EZE 16:13 And you were adorned in gold and silver; and your wrap-around garments were fine linen, and braids, and colored garments; you ate fine flour and olive oil and honey; and you became very vehemently good, and you prospered for royalty.
EZE 16:14 And your name went forth among the nations in your beauty; for it was being completed with attractiveness, in the beauty which I ordered up for you, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 16:15 And you relied in your beauty, and you committed harlotry because of your name, and poured out your harlotry upon all in the byway - it was to him.
EZE 16:16 And you took from your garments, and you made for yourself idols strung together, and fornicated upon them. And in no way should you enter, nor should it be.
EZE 16:17 And you took the items of your boasting from my gold, and from my silver, of which I gave to you, and made for yourself male images, and fornicated with them.
EZE 16:18 And you took your colored clothes, and covered them. And my oil and my incense you put before their face.
EZE 16:19 And my breads which I gave to you - fine flour, and olive oil, and honey, which I fed you, even you put them before their face for a scent of pleasant aroma. Yes, it took place, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 16:20 And you took your sons and your daughters, whom you bore, and sacrificed these to them unto consumption, as you fornicated a little.
EZE 16:21 And you slew your children, and gave them up in your pacifying them to them -
EZE 16:22 this is beyond all your harlotry, and your abominations. And you remembered not the days of your infancy, when you were naked and indecent, being befouled in your blood, and you lived.
EZE 16:23 And it came to pass after all your evils - woe, woe to you, says Adonai the LORD,
EZE 16:24 that you built to yourself a building for a harlot; and you made to yourself a public notice in every square.
EZE 16:25 And upon every corner of the way you built your places of harlotry, and laid waste your beauty. And every one passing by led through your legs, and you multiplied your harlotry.
EZE 16:26 And you fornicated after the sons of Egypt adjoining you, the fleshy ones. And in many ways you fornicated to provoke me to anger.
EZE 16:27 And behold, I stretch out my hand against you, and I will lift away your laws, and deliver you up to the souls detesting you, the daughters of Philistines, the ones turning aside from out of your way of which you were impious.
EZE 16:28 And you fornicated with the sons of Assyria, and neither thus were you satisfied. Yes, you fornicated, and you were not satisfied.
EZE 16:29 And you multiplied your harlotries with the land of Canaan, and to the Chaldeans; and not even in these were you satisfied.
EZE 16:30 What shall I do to your heart, says Adonai the LORD, in your doing all these things - works of a woman harlot speaking openly. And you fornicated thrice among your daughters -
EZE 16:31 in your building your place of harlotry at the top of every street; and you made your base in every square; and you became not even as a harlot bringing together hires.
EZE 16:32 The wife committing adultery is likened to you, the one taking wages from her husband;
EZE 16:33 and to all the ones fornicating with her she gave wages in addition. And you have given wages to all your lovers, and you loaded them to come to you round about in your harlotry.
EZE 16:34 And there became in you a perverting beyond the women in your harlotry - and with you which they shall commit harlotry. For in your giving wages in addition (and wages were not given to you) a perverseness has taken place in you.
EZE 16:35 On account of this, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD!
EZE 16:36 Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because you poured out your brass money, therefore your shame shall be uncovered in your harlotry with your lovers, and into all the thoughts of your lawlessnesses, and in the blood of your children, which you have given to them.
EZE 16:37 On account of this, behold, I will gather against you all your lovers in which you intermixed with them, and all whom you loved, with all the ones whom you detested; and I will bring them together against you round about, and I will uncover your evils to them, and they shall see all your shame.
EZE 16:38 And I will punish you with the punishment of an adulterous one, and one pouring out of blood. And I will appoint you for blood of rage and zeal.
EZE 16:39 And I will deliver you into their hands, and they shall raze your place of harlotry, and demolish your base. And they shall take off you your garments, and take the items of your boasting, and shall leave you naked and indecent.
EZE 16:40 And they shall lead multitudes against you, and shall stone you with stones, and shall butcher you with their blades.
EZE 16:41 And they shall burn your houses by fire, and shall execute among you acts of vengeance before many women. And I will turn you from harlotry, and in no way will I give you up for wages any longer.
EZE 16:42 And I will slacken my rage against you, and my jealousy shall be removed from you, and I will rest, and in no way will I be anxious any longer.
EZE 16:43 Because you remembered not the day of your infancy, and you caused me to fret in all these things. And behold, I have imputed your ways upon your head, says Adonai the LORD; and so you shall not commit impiety above all your lawless deeds.
EZE 16:44 These are all as much as they spoke against you in a parable, saying, As the mother, so also the daughter.
EZE 16:45 you are the daughter of your mother, the one thrusting away her husband and her children; and a sister of your brothers thrusting away their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
EZE 16:46 Your older sister is Samaria, she and her daughters dwelling on your left. And your younger sister dwelling on your right is Sodom and her daughters.
EZE 16:47 And neither as in their ways were you gone, nor according to their lawless deeds acted even a little. But you take precedence over them in all your ways.
EZE 16:48 As I live, says Adonai the LORD, Has Sodom your sister done, (she and her daughters,) in which manner you did, you and your daughters?
EZE 16:49 Besides this, the violation of Sodom your sister - pride; in fullness of bread, and in prosperity they lived extravagantly, she and her daughters; this existed in her and her daughters, and they did not assist the hand of the poor and needy.
EZE 16:50 And they bragged, and committed violations of the law before me. And I removed them as you saw.
EZE 16:51 And Samaria sinned not according to the halves of your sins. But you multiplied your lawless deeds above them, and justified your sisters in all your lawless deeds which you did.
EZE 16:52 And you, carry your torment, by which you corrupted your sisters in your sins in which you acted lawlessly above them, and justified them above yourself! And you, be ashamed and take your dishonor, in that you justified your sisters!
EZE 16:53 And I will return their rejection, the rejection of Sodom and her daughters; and I will return the rejection of Samaria and her daughters; and I will return your rejection in the midst of them;
EZE 16:54 so that you should carry your torment, and be disgraced from all which you did in your provoking me to anger.
EZE 16:55 And your sister Sodom and her daughters shall be restored as they were from the beginning. And Samaria and her daughters shall be restored as they were from the beginning. And you and your daughters shall be restored as you were from the beginning.
EZE 16:56 And was not Sodom your sister for a report in your mouth in the days of your pride,
EZE 16:57 before the uncovering of your evils, in which manner you are now the scorn of the daughters of Syria, and all the ones round about you, even the daughters of the Philistines compassing you round about?
EZE 16:58 The impious acts of yours, and the lawless deeds of yours - you have carried them, says the LORD.
EZE 16:59 Thus says Adonai the LORD; And I will do among you as you did, as you disgraced this oath to violate my covenant.
EZE 16:60 And I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your infancy. And I will reestablish with you an everlasting covenant.
EZE 16:61 And you shall remember your ways, and shall be despised in your taking up your sisters, your older ones with your younger ones. And I will give them to you for edifying, but not from out of your covenant.
EZE 16:62 And I will reestablish my covenant with you, and you shall realize that I am the LORD;
EZE 16:63 so that you should remember, and should be ashamed, and it might not be for you still to open your mouth because of the face of your dishonor in my atoning you according to all as much as you did, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 17:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 17:2 O son of man, describe a tale, and speak a parable to the house of Israel!
EZE 17:3 And you shall say, Thus says Adonai the LORD; The great eagle having large wings, stretching out long, full of claws, who has the leading to enter into Lebanon - even he took the choice cedar.
EZE 17:4 The tips of the tenderness he plucked off, and brought them into the land of Canaan; he put them into a city being walled.
EZE 17:5 And he took from the seed of the land, and put it into the ground fit for sowing as a plant by much water; he arranged it for attention.
EZE 17:6 And it arose and became a vine being weakened and small in greatness for its vine branches upon it to be apparent; and its roots were underneath it. And it became a vine, and produced layers of vines, and stretched out its tendrils.
EZE 17:7 And there was another great eagle having large wings, and many claws. And behold, her grapevine was being twisted unto him, and her roots unto him, and her vine branches she sent out to him, to water her with the casting away from her planting.
EZE 17:8 In good ground upon much water she was fattened to produce buds and to bear fruit, to be made into a great vine.
EZE 17:9 On account of this, say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Shall she prosper? Shall not the roots of her tenderness, and the fruits rot? Yes, all her things shooting up early shall be dried up, and not by a great arm, nor by many people to pull her out by her roots.
EZE 17:10 And behold, she was fattened - should she prosper? Shall she not in her being touched by the burning wind be dried up in dryness? With the cast of her east wind she shall be dried up.
EZE 17:11 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 17:12 Say indeed to the rebelling house, Do you not know what these are? You speak to them! Behold, the king of Babylon comes unto Jerusalem, and he shall take her king, and her rulers. And he shall lead them to himself into Babylon.
EZE 17:13 And he shall take of the seed of the kingdom, and shall ordain with him a covenant, and shall bring him by an oath; and he shall take the governors of the land,
EZE 17:14 to become a weak kingdom, so that altogether it should not lift itself up; but to keep its covenant and to establish her.
EZE 17:15 And he shall revolt from him to send messengers unto Egypt, to give to him horses and many people. Shall he prosper? Shall the one acting opposite be preserved? And shall one violating covenant be preserved?
EZE 17:16 As I live, says Adonai the LORD, surely in the place of the king giving him reign, who disgraced my oath, and violated my covenant, he shall come to an end with him in the midst of Babylon.
EZE 17:17 And not by great power nor by a great multitude shall Pharaoh make war with him, in throwing up a palisade, and with construction of a range of weapons, to remove many souls.
EZE 17:18 And he disgraced a swearing of an oath violating the covenant, and behold, he appointed his hand, and all these things he did to him - he shall not escape.
EZE 17:19 On account of this say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; As I live, surely swearing by my oath which he disgraced, and my covenant which he violated, that I will impute it on his head.
EZE 17:20 And I will spread forth upon him my net, and he shall be captured in his being encompassed about, and I will lead him into Babylon, and shall litigate with him there concerning his iniquity of which he transgressed against me.
EZE 17:21 In all his exiles, in every battle array of his, they shall fall by the broadsword, and the remaining I shall scatter unto every wind. And you shall realize that I the LORD have spoken.
EZE 17:22 For thus says Adonai the LORD; And I will take, even I, of the chosen of the cedar from its top; and I will give from the head of her shoots; I will pluck off from out of her heart, and I will plant upon a high mountain.
EZE 17:23 And I will hang him on an elevated mountain of Israel; and I will plant it. And there shall be brought forth a bud, and he shall produce fruit, and he will be for a great cedar; and there shall rest underneath him every bird; and every winged creature shall rest under the shadow of his tender branches; and his vine branches shall be restored.
EZE 17:24 And all the trees of the plain shall know that I am the LORD, the one humbling the high tree, and raising up high the low tree; and drying the green tree, and again flourishing the dry tree. I the LORD have spoken and shall act.
EZE 18:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 18:2 O son of man, What to you is this parable concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers ate an unripe grape, and the teeth of the children have a toothache?
EZE 18:3 As I live, says Adonai the LORD, if the saying of this parable still be in Israel.
EZE 18:4 For all the souls are mine; in which manner the soul of the father, also the soul of the son - they are mine. The soul sinning - this one shall die.
EZE 18:5 But a man who will be a just one executing equity and righteousness,
EZE 18:6 and shall not eat to idols upon the mountains, and his eyes in no way shall be lifted up to the thoughts of the house of Israel, and the wife of his neighbor in no way shall he defile, and to the wife being in menstruation he shall not draw near,
EZE 18:7 and in no way shall tyrannize over a man, and collateral taken as a pledge being owed he shall give back, and things for seizure he shall not seize by force, and shall give his bread to the one hungering, and shall cover the naked with a garment,
EZE 18:8 and shall not give his money with interest due, and shall not take money by usury, and shall turn his hand from injustice, and shall execute a just judgment between a man and his neighbor,
EZE 18:9 and shall go by my orders, and shall guard my ordinances to do them; this one is a just one - to life he shall live, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 18:10 And if he engenders a mischievous son, one pouring out blood and committing sins,
EZE 18:11 and went not in the way of his just father, but also upon the mountains he ate to idols, and the wife of his neighbor he defiled,
EZE 18:12 and tyrannized over the poor and needy, and seized by force, and did not give back collateral taken as a pledge, and for the idols he put his eyes to do lawlessness,
EZE 18:13 and with interest gave a thing, and by usury took; this one shall not live to life. All these lawless deeds he did - unto death he shall be put to death; his blood will be upon him.
EZE 18:14 And if he should engender a son, and he should behold all the sins of his father which he did, and should fear, and should not do according to these things,
EZE 18:15 and has not eaten upon the mountains, and put not his eyes onto the thoughts of the house of Israel, and defiled not the wife of his neighbor,
EZE 18:16 and tyrannized not over a man, and took not collateral for security, and by seizure seized not by force, and gave his bread to the hungry, and covered the naked with a garment,
EZE 18:17 and turned his hand from injustice, and did not take money from interest and usury, and executed righteousness, and went by my orders - he shall not come to an end by the iniquities of his father - to life he shall live.
EZE 18:18 But if his father by affliction afflicted, and by seizure seized by force, and did contrary in the midst of his people, then he shall die in his iniquity.
EZE 18:19 And you shall say, Why is it that the son took not the iniquity of his father? Because the son has done equity and righteousness and mercy. All my laws he preserved, and he did them - to life he shall live.
EZE 18:20 But the soul sinning, it shall die. And the son shall not take the iniquity of the father. And the father shall not take the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of a just one shall be upon him, and the lawlessness of the lawless one shall be upon him.
EZE 18:21 And the lawless one, if he should turn from all his lawless deeds which he did, and should keep all my commandments, and should do equity and righteousness and mercy - to life he shall live, and he shall not die.
EZE 18:22 All of his transgressions, as many as he did, they shall not be remembered to him - in his righteousness which he did he shall live.
EZE 18:23 By volition do I want the death of the lawless one, says Adonai the LORD? But as to turn him from his evil way and to enliven him.
EZE 18:24 But in the turning a just one from his righteousness, and he should commit iniquity, according to all the iniquities which the lawless one did - if he should do thus, he shall not live. In all the things of his righteousness, which he did, in no way shall they be remembered - in his transgression in which he fell, and in his sins in which he sinned, in them he shall die.
EZE 18:25 And you said, The way of the LORD is not straight. Hear indeed house of Israel! Is my way not straight? Is it that your ways are straight?
EZE 18:26 In the turning the just one from his righteousness, and he should commit transgression, and he should die in the transgression which he did - he shall die in it.
EZE 18:27 And in the lawless one turning from his lawlessness which he did, and he shall act with equity and righteousness, this one kept his soul.
EZE 18:28 For he saw and turned from all his impiety which he did - to life he shall live, in no way shall he die.
EZE 18:29 And the house of Israel says, The way of the LORD is not straight. Is my way not straight, O house of Israel? Is it not your way that is not straight?
EZE 18:30 Therefore I shall judge you each according to his way, O house of Israel, says Adonai the LORD. Be restored and turn from all your impiety, and punishment of iniquity shall not be to you!
EZE 18:31 Throw away from yourself all your impiety which you were impious against me, and make to yourself a new heart and a new spirit! And why do you die, O house of Israel?
EZE 18:32 For I do not want the death of the one dying, says Adonai the LORD. Return then, and you shall live!
EZE 19:1 And you, take up a lamentation against the ruler of Israel!
EZE 19:2 And you shall say, Why became your mother among cubs in the midst of lions? In the midst of lions she multiplied her cubs.
EZE 19:3 And one of her cubs leaped - he became a lion, and learned to seize by force; he ate the prey of men.
EZE 19:4 And nations heard concerning him; and he was seized in their corruption, and they led him in a wicker cage into the land of Egypt.
EZE 19:5 And she beheld that he was thrust away from her, and her support perished, and she took another from her cubs, and ordered him to be a lion.
EZE 19:6 And he paced in the midst of lions; he became a lion, and learned to seize prey, and devoured men.
EZE 19:7 And he fed in his boldness, and made their cities quite desolate; and he obliterated the land, and the fullness of it by the voice of his roaring.
EZE 19:8 And nations assailed against him round about of the places, and spread forth upon him their nets; and in their corruption he was seized.
EZE 19:9 And they put him in a cage, even in a wicker cage, and led him to the king of Babylon. And they brought him into prison, so that his voice should not be heard any more upon the mountains of Israel.
EZE 19:10 Your mother was as a vine, as a flower of a pomegranate being planted by water. Her fruit and her bud took place because of much water.
EZE 19:11 And she became a rod of strength over a tribe of ones leading; and she was raised up high in her greatness in the midst of the trunks; and she beheld her greatness in the multitude of her branches.
EZE 19:12 But she was broken off in pieces in rage, she was tossed upon the ground, and the burning wind dried her choice branches. The rods of her strength were punished and were dried; fire consumed her.
EZE 19:13 And now they have planted her in the wilderness, in a waterless land, and one thirsting.
EZE 19:14 And fire came forth from out of a rod of her choice ones, and devoured her; and a rod of strength was not in her. She is a tribe for a parable of lamentation, and will be for a lamentation.
EZE 20:1 And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, tenth of the month, there came men from the elders of the house of Israel to ask of the LORD. And they sat before my face.
EZE 20:2 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 20:3 O son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and you shall say to them, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Shall you come to ask me? As I live, I shall not be answering to you, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 20:4 Shall I punish them with punishment, O son of man? Testify to them of the lawless deeds of their fathers!
EZE 20:5 And you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD; From which day I took up the house of Israel, and made known to the seed of the house of Jacob, and was known by them in the land of Egypt, and took hold of them with my hand, saying, I am the LORD your God.
EZE 20:6 In that day I took hold of them by my hand, to lead them from out of the land of Egypt into the land which I prepared for them; a land flowing milk and honey - the honeycomb is beyond every land.
EZE 20:7 And I said to them, Let each throw away the abominations of his eyes, and in the practices of Egypt be not defiled! I am the LORD your God.
EZE 20:8 And they revolted from me, and wanted not to listen to me. Each threw not away the abominations of their eyes; and the practices of Egypt they abandoned not. And I spoke to pour out my rage upon them, to complete my anger among them in the midst of Egypt.
EZE 20:9 And I acted so that my name should not be thoroughly profaned before the nations, which they are in the midst of them, in which I made known to them of their presence, to lead them from out of the land of Egypt.
EZE 20:10 And I led them from our of the land of Egypt, and led them into the wilderness.
EZE 20:11 And I gave them my orders, and made known my ordinances to them, how if a man should do them, then he shall live by them.
EZE 20:12 And my sabbaths I gave to them, to be for a sign between me, and between them, for them to know that I am the LORD, the one sanctifying them.
EZE 20:13 And the house of Israel greatly embittered me in the wilderness. In my orders they went not, and my ordinances they thrust away - which a man shall do them and shall live by them. And they profaned my sabbaths exceedingly. And I spoke to pour out my rage upon them in the wilderness, to completely consume them.
EZE 20:14 And I acted so that my name, the thorough one, should not be profaned before the nations, which I led them out before their eyes.
EZE 20:15 And I lifted my hand against them in the wilderness, the thorough one, to not bring them into the land which I gave to them, (a land flowing milk and honey - the honeycomb is beyond all the land.)
EZE 20:16 because they thrusted away my ordinances, and in my orders they went not by them, and they profaned my sabbaths, and went after the thoughts of their hearts.
EZE 20:17 And my eye spared them to not wipe them away, and I did not commit them unto consumption in the wilderness.
EZE 20:18 And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not go in the laws of your fathers, and do not keep their ordinances, and do not intermingle in their practices, and be not defiled!
EZE 20:19 I am the LORD your God. Go by my orders, and keep my ordinances, and do them!
EZE 20:20 And my sabbaths - sanctify them! And it will be for a sign between me and you, to know that I am the LORD your God.
EZE 20:21 And they rebelled against me. And their children went not by my orders. And my ordinances they guarded not to do them, which if a man does then he shall live by them. And my sabbaths they profaned. And I spoke to pour out my rage upon them, and to complete my anger against them in the wilderness.
EZE 20:22 And I turned my hand against them, and I acted because of myself, so that my name should not be thoroughly profaned before the nations, from whom I led them out before their eyes.
EZE 20:23 And I lifted up my hand against them in the wilderness, to disperse them among the nations, and to scatter them in the places;
EZE 20:24 because they observed not my ordinances, and they thrusted away my orders, and profaned my sabbaths, and their eyes were after the thoughts of their fathers.
EZE 20:25 And I gave them up to orders that were not good, and ordinances in which they shall not live by them.
EZE 20:26 And I will defile them in their decrees, in my traveling by every one opening wide the womb, so that I should obliterate them, that they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 20:27 On account of this, speak to the house of Israel, O son of man! And you shall say to them, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Until this time your fathers provoked me to anger in their transgressions, in which they fell against me.
EZE 20:28 And I brought them into the land which I lifted up my hand to give it to them, and they beheld every high hill, and every shady tree, and sacrificed there to their gods. And they arranged there the wrath of the gift offerings. And they arranged there a scent of their pleasant aroma offering. And they offered a libation there of their libation offerings.
EZE 20:29 And I said to them, What is Abama, that you enter there? And they called upon its name, Abama, until today's day.
EZE 20:30 On account of this, say to the house of Israel! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Shall you defile yourselves in the lawless deeds of your fathers? And do you fornicate after their abominations?
EZE 20:31 And in the first-fruits of your gifts, and in your offerings, in the passing through your children in fire, you defiled yourselves in all your thoughts until today's day. And should I answer to you, O house of Israel? As I live, says Adonai the LORD, Shall I answer to you, and shall this thing ascend upon your spirit?
EZE 20:32 And it will not be in which manner that you say, We will be as the nations, and as the tribes of the earth, to serve wood and stone idols.
EZE 20:33 On account of this, as I live, says Adonai the LORD, with a fortified hand and with a high arm, and with rage being poured forth, I will reign over you.
EZE 20:34 And I will lead you from out of the peoples, and I will take you from out of the places of which you were dispersed in them, with a fortified hand, and with a high arm, and with rage being poured forth.
EZE 20:35 And I will lead you into the wilderness of the peoples, and will litigate for you there face to face.
EZE 20:36 In which manner I litigated for your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will judge you, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 20:37 And I will lead you by my rod, and I will bring you in by number.
EZE 20:38 And I shall choose from out of you the impious ones, and the ones revolting; for I will lead them from out of their sojourning, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel; and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 20:39 And to you, O house of Israel, thus says Adonai the LORD; Let each remove his evil practices! And after these things, if you listen to me, and profane not my holy name any longer by your gifts, and by your practices,
EZE 20:40 that upon my holy mountain, upon the high mountain of Israel, says Adonai the LORD, there all the house of Israel shall serve to me unto the end upon the land. And there I will favorably receive them, and there I shall watch your first-fruits, and the first-fruits of your offerings in all your sanctified things.
EZE 20:41 In a scent of pleasant aroma I will favorably receive you, in my leading you from out of the peoples, and to take you from out of the places in which you were dispersed in them; and I shall be sanctified in you before the eyes of the peoples.
EZE 20:42 And you shall realize that I am the LORD, in my bringing you into the land of Israel, into which I lifted my hand to give it to your fathers.
EZE 20:43 And you shall remember your ways there, and your practices which you defiled yourselves by them; and you shall beat your faces over all your evils.
EZE 20:44 And you shall realize that I am the LORD, in my doing thus to you so that my name should not be profaned, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupting practices, O house of Israel, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 20:45 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 20:46 O son of man, firmly fix your face against Teman, and look upon Daror, and prophesy against the grove leading to Negev!
EZE 20:47 And you shall say to the grove of Negev, Hear the word of the LORD! Thus says the LORD; Behold, I kindle in you a fire, and it shall devour in you every green tree, and every dry tree. The flame being lit up shall not be extinguished, and every face from the east wind unto the north shall be incinerated by it.
EZE 20:48 And all flesh shall realize that I am the LORD - I kindled it, and it shall not be extinguished.
EZE 20:49 And I said, By no means, O LORD, O Lord, these shall say to me, Is not this a parable being spoken?
EZE 21:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 21:2 On account of this, prophesy O son of man, and firmly fix your face against Jerusalem, and look upon their holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel!
EZE 21:3 And you shall say to the land of Israel, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I am against you, and I will pull my knife from out of its sheath, and will utterly destroy from out of you the lawless one and unjust one.
EZE 21:4 Because I will utterly destroy the unjust one and the lawless one from out of you, so shall my knife come forth from out of its sheath against all flesh from the east wind unto the north.
EZE 21:5 And all flesh shall realize that I the LORD pulled out my knife from out of its sheath; and it shall not turn back any longer.
EZE 21:6 And you, O son of man, groan in the breaking of your loins; and in griefs you shall moan before their eyes.
EZE 21:7 And it will be if they should say to you, For what reason do you moan? that you shall say, For the message; for it comes, and every heart shall be devastated, and all hands shall be disabled, and all flesh shall expire, and every spirit, and all thighs shall be tainted by wetness. Behold, it comes and it shall be, says the LORD God.
EZE 21:8 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 21:9 O son of man, prophesy! And you shall say, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Say, O broadsword, O broadsword, sharpen and be enraged,
EZE 21:10 so that you should slay victims for slaughter! Be sharpened so that you should become for glitter! Prepare for paralysis! Slay! Treat with contempt! Put aside every tree!
EZE 21:11 And he made it ready for his hand to hold. The broadsword is made very sharp, it is ready to put it into the hand of one piercing.
EZE 21:12 Shout aloud and shriek, O son of man! For it happened unto my people. It is come upon all the ones guiding Israel. They shall sojourn upon the broadsword. It happened unto my people. On account of this, clap with your hand!
EZE 21:13 For justice has been done, and what if even the tribe be thrust away? It will not be, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 21:14 And you, O son of man, prophesy, and clap hand upon hand! And repeat the broadsword! The third broadsword is of slain ones, the great broadsword of the slain. And you shall amaze them,
EZE 21:15 so that the heart should be devastated, and the ones being weakened should be multiplied at every gate of theirs. They have been delivered up as victims for slaughter by the broadsword. Well done keen one being for slaughter. Well done one being for glitter. As lightning go along!
EZE 21:16 Sharpen from the right and from the left, wherever your face should be aroused!
EZE 21:17 And I also will clap my hand to my hand, and I will slacken my rage; I the LORD, have spoken.
EZE 21:18 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 21:19 And you, O son of man, set in order to yourself two ways for the broadsword of the king of Babylon to enter! From out of one place shall come forth the two companies; and set in order a hand at the top of the street of the city upon the corner of the street,
EZE 21:20 for the broadsword to enter upon Rabbath of the sons of Ammon, and upon Judah, and upon Jerusalem in an assault.
EZE 21:21 For the king of Babylon shall stand upon the ancient way, upon the corner of the two streets to use oracles for divination, to stir up the rod, and to ask among the carved images, and to watchto look for omens livers..
EZE 21:22 From his right became the oracle against Jerusalem, to throw up a siege mound, to open wide the mouth in yelling, to raise up high a voice with a cry, to throw up a siege mound against her gates, and to throw up an embankment, and to build a range of weapons.
EZE 21:23 And he to them was as one using oracles for divination before them, and he himself was calling to mind their iniquity to be seized.
EZE 21:24 On account of this, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because you called to mind your iniquities in the uncovering of your impiety to see your sins, in all your lawlessnesses, and in all your practices; because you called to mind, in these you shall be captured.
EZE 21:25 And you, O profane lawless one guiding Israel, whose day is come in time of iniquity - an end,
EZE 21:26 thus says Adonai the LORD; Remove the turban, and put aside the crown - this will not be such! You abased the high, and raised up high the low.
EZE 21:27 Injustice, Injustice, I will appoint it. Neither this will be such until of which the one who is fit shall come, and I will deliver up to him.
EZE 21:28 And you, O son of man, prophesy! And you shall say, Thus says Adonai the LORD to the sons of Ammon, and concerning their scorning; and you shall say, O broadsword, O broadsword, being unsheathed for victims for slaughter, and being unsheathed for consummation, arise so as to shine!
EZE 21:29 In the vain vision of yours, and in your using lying oracles to deliver yourself upon the necks of the slain, of lawless ones, which is come the day in a time of iniquity - an end.
EZE 21:30 Return to your sheath! In this place which you were engendered in your own land, I will judge you.
EZE 21:31 And I will pour out upon you my anger. In the fire of my anger I will breathe against you, and I will deliver you into the hands of barbaric men contriving corruption.
EZE 21:32 By fire you will be a thing devoured; your blood will be in the midst of your land; in no way shall there be a memory of you - for I the LORD have spoken.
EZE 22:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 22:2 And you, O son of man, shall you judge the city of blood? Yes, hold her forth for an example for all her lawless deeds!
EZE 22:3 And you shall say, Thus says the Lord the LORD, O city shedding blood in the midst of herself, so that her time should come, and prepares thoughts against herself, to defile herself.
EZE 22:4 In your blood which you shed, you have fallen; and in your ideas which you produced you defiled yourself; and your days drew near, and brought on the time of your years. On account of this I have given you for scorning by the nations, and for mocking by all the regions -
EZE 22:5 the ones near to you, and the ones far at a distance from you. And they shall mock against you, O one famously unclean, and great in lawless deeds.
EZE 22:6 Behold, the ones guiding the house of Israel, each blends together with his relatives against you, so as to shed blood.
EZE 22:7 They spoke evil of father and mother among you. And against the foreigner they behaved with injustice among you. Orphan and widow they tyrannize among you.
EZE 22:8 And my holy things they treat with contempt, and my sabbaths they profaned among you.
EZE 22:9 The men were robbers among you, so that they shed blood among you. And they were eating upon the mountains to idols among you. They committed unholiness in your midst.
EZE 22:10 They uncovered the shame of the father among you; and they abased the woman sitting apart in her uncleannesses among you.
EZE 22:11 Each with the wife of his neighbor acted lawlessly; and each defiled his daughter-in-law in impiety; and each abased his sister the daughter of his father among you.
EZE 22:12 They took bribes among you so that they should shed blood; interest and usury they received among you, and you completed the consummation of your evil by tyranny, and you forgot me, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 22:13 And if I should strike my hand against my hand against the evils which you have exhausted in the things which you did, and against the blood shed by you against the ones being in your midst,
EZE 22:14 shall your heart stand? Shall your hands hold in the days in which I do unto you? I the LORD have spoken, and will act.
EZE 22:15 And I will disperse you among the nations, and I will scatter you among the regions, and your uncleanness shall vanish from you.
EZE 22:16 And I will allot among you before the eyes of the nations, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 22:17 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 22:18 O son of man, behold, the house of Israel has become to me an intermingling of all brass, and iron, and tin, and lead; they are in the midst of a furnace of silver being intermingled.
EZE 22:19 On account of this, say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because you became all for one admixture, on account of this I will take you in the midst of Jerusalem.
EZE 22:20 As silver is taken, and brass, and iron, and tin, and lead in the midst of the furnace, to blow fire into it, for the casting in a furnace; so I will take you in my anger and in my rage, and I will gather, and cast you in a furnace.
EZE 22:21 And I will blow upon you in the fire of my anger, and you shall be cast in a furnace in the midst of it.
EZE 22:22 In which manner silver is cast in a furnace in the midst of the furnace, so shall you be cast in a furnace in the midst of it; and you shall realize that I the LORD poured out my rage upon you.
EZE 22:23 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 22:24 O son of man, say to her! You are a land not having rain, nor rain came upon you in the day of anger.
EZE 22:25 Of whom the ones guiding in her midst are as roaring lions seizing prey by force; devouring souls by domination, and taking honor; and your widows are multiplied in your midst.
EZE 22:26 And her priests annulled my law, and profaned my holy things. Between holy and profane they distinguished not, and between unclean and the clean they distinguished not; and from my sabbaths they covered up their eyes, and I was profaned in their midst.
EZE 22:27 Her rulers in her midst are as wolves seizing prey to shed blood, to destroy lives, so that their desire for wealth should overabound.
EZE 22:28 And her prophets anointing them shall fall seeing vanities, using lying oracles, saying, Thus says Adonai the LORD - but the LORD spoke not.
EZE 22:29 The people of the land are pressuring iniquity, and tearing in pieces the prey, tyrannizing the poor and needy, and not behaving with equity to the foreigner.
EZE 22:30 And I sought from out of them a man behaving rightly, and standing before my face soundly in the time of the anger, so as to not wipe her away unto the end - but I did not find.
EZE 22:31 And I poured out upon her my rage, by the fire of my anger, to complete it. I have imputed their ways unto their heads, says Adonai the Lord.
EZE 23:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 23:2 O son of man, there were two women, daughters of one mother.
EZE 23:3 And they fornicated in Egypt. In their youth they committed harlotry. There their breasts fell; there they lost virginity.
EZE 23:4 And their names - Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her sister. And they were born to me, and gave birth to sons and daughters. And their names - Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem is Aholibah.
EZE 23:5 And Aholah fornicated from me, and doted upon her lovers - upon the Assyrians being next to her,
EZE 23:6 being clothed in blue, leaders and commandants, young men, all choice horsemen riding upon horses.
EZE 23:7 And she offered her harlotry unto them - the choice sons of the Assyrians all. And upon all upon whom she doted herself with in all her thoughts she defiled herself.
EZE 23:8 And her harlotry with Egypt she abandoned not, for they went to bed with her in her youth, and they caused her loss of virginity, and they poured out their harlotry upon her.
EZE 23:9 On account of this I delivered her up into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the sons of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.
EZE 23:10 They uncovered her shame. They took her sons and daughters, and they killed her by the broadsword. And she became a discussion for women; and they executed acts of vengeance in her.
EZE 23:11 And her sister Aholibah saw, and corrupted her undertaking above her sister, and her harlotry above the harlotry of her sister.
EZE 23:12 She doted upon the sons of the Assyrians, the leaders, and commandants near her, ones being clothed elegantly, horsemen riding upon horses, young men, all choice.
EZE 23:13 And I beheld that they were defiled; it was one way for the two of them.
EZE 23:14 And she added unto her harlotry, and she saw men having been portrayed upon the wall, images of Chaldeans having been portrayed with a stylus,
EZE 23:15 having colored belts tied upon their loins, deeply dyed apparel upon their heads, all with the appearance of third rank officials, a likeness of sons of Babylon of the Chaldeans, of the land of their fatherland.
EZE 23:16 And she doted upon them in the vision of her eyes, and sent out messengers to them into the land of the Chaldeans.
EZE 23:17 And sons of Babylon came to her into her marriage-bed resting up, and defiled her with their harlotry, and she was defiled by them, and her soul separated from them.
EZE 23:18 And she uncovered her harlotry, and uncovered her shame. And my soul separated from her in which manner my soul separated from her sister.
EZE 23:19 And you multiplied your harlotry, to call to mind a day of your youth in which you committed harlotry in Egypt.
EZE 23:20 And you doted upon the Chaldeans, which their flesh is as flesh of donkeys, and their genitals as genitals of horses.
EZE 23:21 And you overlooked the lawlessness of your youth, which you did in Egypt in your lodging, of which place the breasts of your youth fell.
EZE 23:22 On account of this, O Aholibah, thus says Adonai the LORD, Behold, I awaken your lovers against you, from whom your soul is separated unto them. And I will bring them against you round about;
EZE 23:23 the sons of Babylon and all the Chaldeans - Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, and all the sons of the Assyrians with them; choice young men, governors and commandants, all tribunes, and famous ones riding upon horses.
EZE 23:24 And they shall come upon you all from the north with weapons, and chariots, and wheels, and a multitude of peoples, and chest plates, and shields, and helmets - they shall be placed around about you, and they shall throw upon you a watch round about. And I will impute judgment before their face, and they shall punish you in their judgments.
EZE 23:25 And I will put my jealousy against you, and they shall deal with you in an anger of rage. They shall remove your nose and your ears; and they shall throw down your remnant with a broadsword. They shall take your sons and your daughters; and your remnant shall be devoured by fire.
EZE 23:26 And they shall strip your clothes off you, and shall take the items of your boasting.
EZE 23:27 And I will turn your impious deeds from you, and your harlotry from the land of Egypt. And in no way shall you lift up your eyes unto them, and in no way shall you remember Egypt any more.
EZE 23:28 For thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I deliver you into the hands which you detest, from which your soul is separated from them.
EZE 23:29 And they shall deal with you in hatred, and shall take all the things of your toils, and you will be naked and disgraced. And the shame of your harlotry shall be uncovered, even your impiety, and your harlotry.
EZE 23:30 He did to you these things in your fornicating after the nations, and you defiled yourself in their ideas.
EZE 23:31 You went in the way of your sister; and I will put her cup into your hands.
EZE 23:32 Thus says Adonai the LORD; The cup of your sister you shall drink - deep and spacious; it shall be for laughter and sneering abounding to complete intoxication.
EZE 23:33 And you shall be filled of feebleness, a cup of extinction, and a cup of your sister Samaria.
EZE 23:34 And you shall drink it and strain it out. And his potsherds you shall devour, and you shall pull about your breasts. And your holiday feasts, and your new moons I will pervert, for I have spoken, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 23:35 On account of this, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because you forgot me, and threw me behind your body, then you receive for your impiety and your harlotry!
EZE 23:36 And the LORD said to me, O son of man, Will you judge Aholah and Aholibah? And shall you report to them their lawless deeds;
EZE 23:37 that they committed adultery, and blood is on their hands; and of their thoughts they committed adultery, and their children which they bore to me, they led them through fire.
EZE 23:38 While also they did these things to me, they defiled my holy things in that day, and profaned my sabbaths;
EZE 23:39 even in their slaying their children to their idols, and entering into my holy places in that day to profane them; and behold, thus they did in the midst of my house.
EZE 23:40 And they sent forth to the men having come from far off, to which they sent out messengers to them; and together in their coming straight, you bathed, and tinged your eyes with antimony, and adorned yourself with ornamentation.
EZE 23:41 And you sat down upon a bed being a spread out, and a table being adorned before it; and my incense and my oil you put before them, and they were glad in them.
EZE 23:42 And a sound of harmony they played music to men from out of a multitude of men having come being drunk from out of the wilderness. And they put bracelets upon their hands, and a crown of boasting upon their heads.
EZE 23:43 And I said, Do they not commit adultery with these? And works of a harlot also she fornicated?
EZE 23:44 And they entered unto her, in which manner men enter to a woman harlot - so they entered to Aholah, and to Aholibah the lawless women, to commit lawlessness.
EZE 23:45 And they are just men, and they shall punish them in punishment of adulteresses. And in judgment they shed blood, for they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
EZE 23:46 Thus says Adonai the LORD, Lead a multitude against them, and put disturbance and ravaging among them;
EZE 23:47 and let them stone with stones of multitudes; and let them pierce them through with their blades! Their sons and their daughters they shall kill, and their houses they shall burn.
EZE 23:48 And I will return the impiety of the land, and all the women shall be corrected, and in no way shall they do according to their impious deeds.
EZE 23:49 And your impiety shall be imputed upon you, and the sins of your ideas you shall bear; And you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 24:1 And the word of the LORD came to me in the ninth year, in the tenth month, tenth of the month, saying,
EZE 24:2 O son of man, write for yourself the name of the day from this day, from which the king of Babylon fastened upon Jerusalem, even from today's day!
EZE 24:3 And speak a parable against the rebelling house! And you shall say to them, Thus says Adonai the LORD; Set up the kettle! Set up, and pour water into it!
EZE 24:4 And put into it its pieces, every good piece - the leg, and shoulder, tearing off the flesh from the bones.
EZE 24:5 Having taken from choice cattle, then fire up the bones underneath them, boiled erupted and cooked - her bones in her midst.
EZE 24:6 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; O city of bloodshed, a kettle in which there is poison in it, and the poison came not forth from out of her; they brought forth by her limb; a lot fell not unto her.
EZE 24:7 For her blood became in her midst; upon a smooth rock I arranged it; I have not poured it upon the ground to cover earth upon it;
EZE 24:8 to let rage ascend for a punishment. To be punished I put her blood upon a smooth rock, so as to not cover it.
EZE 24:9 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Woe, O city of blood, I also shall magnify the firebrand,
EZE 24:10 and I will multiply the wood, and kindle the fire, so that the meats should melt away, and the broth should be lessened, and the bones shall be parched;
EZE 24:11 and it should stand upon her coals, so that it should be burnt through, and her brass utensils should be heated, and her uncleanness should melt away in the midst of her, and her poison should fail,
EZE 24:12 and in no way shall there come forth from out of her much of her poison.
EZE 24:13 Her poison shall be a disgrace in the boiling of your uncleanness, and because you defiled yourself, and you were not cleansed from your uncleanness. And what if you should not be cleansed any more, until of which I shall fill up my rage in you?
EZE 24:14 I the LORD have spoken, and it shall come, and I will do. I will not warn nor show mercy, and in no way shall I comfort. According to your ways, and according to your thoughts I will judge you, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 24:15 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 24:16 O son of man, behold, I take from you the desirable things of your eyes in battle array; but in no way shall you beat your chest, nor in any way shall you weep, nor in any way should tears come to you.
EZE 24:17 You shall moan being silent; it is a moaning of bloodshed of a loin; you shall not make a mourning for mankind. The hair on your head shall not be braided upon you, and your sandals shall be on your feet; and in no way shall you be comforted by their lips, and the bread of men in no way shall you eat.
EZE 24:18 And I spoke to the people in the morning, in which manner he gave charge to me. And my wife died at evening. And I did in the morning in which manner orders were given to me.
EZE 24:19 And the people said to me, Will you not report to us what these things are which you do?
EZE 24:20 And I said to them, The word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 24:21 Say to the house of Israel! Thus says Adonai the LORD, Behold, I will profane my holy places, the neighing the boasting. of your strength, the desirable things of your eyes, and for what your souls spare; and your sons and your daughters whom you abandoned will fall by the broadsword.
EZE 24:22 And you shall do in which manner I have done. From their mouth you shall not be comforted, and the bread of men you shall not eat.
EZE 24:23 And your hair shall be upon your head, and your sandals on your feet; neither shall you lament, nor shall you weep; and you shall melt away in your iniquities, and each shall comfort his brother.
EZE 24:24 And Ezekiel will be to you for a portent; and according to all as many things as he did you shall do. Whenever these things should come, then you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 24:25 And you, O son of man, shall it not be in the day whenever I take their strength from them, the haughtiness of their boasting, the desirable things of their eyes, and the haughtiness of their soul, their sons, and their daughters,
EZE 24:26 that in that day the one escaping shall come to you, to announce to you in your ears?
EZE 24:27 In that day your mouth shall be opened wide to the one having escaped, and you shall speak, and in no way should you be mute any longer. And you will be to them for a portent; and they shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 25:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 25:2 O son of man, firmly fix your face against the sons of Ammon, and prophesy against them!
EZE 25:3 And you shall say to the sons of Ammon, Hear the word of Adonai the LORD! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because you rejoiced over my holy places, for it was profaned; and over the land of Israel, for it was obliterated; and over the house of Judah, for they went into captivity.
EZE 25:4 On account of this, behold, I deliver you up to the sons of Kedem for an inheritance. And they shall encamp among your chattel among you, and shall put their tents among you. They shall eat your fruits, and they shall drink of your fatness.
EZE 25:5 And I will give the city of Ammon for pastures of camels, and the sons of Ammon for a pasture of sheep. And you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 25:6 For thus says the LORD; Because you clapped your hand, and stamped your foot, and rejoiced in your soul over the land of Israel;
EZE 25:7 on account of this, behold, I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will appoint you for ravaging among the nations; and I will utterly destroy you from out of the peoples, and I will destroy you from out of the regions by destruction; and you shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 25:8 Thus says Adonai the LORD, Because Moab and Seir said, Behold, in the manner of all the nations is the house Judah.
EZE 25:9 On account of this, behold, I will disable the shoulder of Moab from the cities of his extremities, the choice land, the house of Beth-jeshimoth above the spring of the city by the sea.
EZE 25:10 Of the sons of Kedem I have given them the sons of Ammon in addition for an inheritance, so that there should not be a memory of the sons of Ammon among the nations.
EZE 25:11 And in Moab I will execute vengeance; and they shall realize that I am the LORD.
EZE 25:12 Thus says Adonai the LORD; Because Edom did in their avenging with vengeance against the house of Judah, and resented them, and took vengeance for punishment upon them;
EZE 25:13 on account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD, Even I will stretch out my hand against Edom. And I will utterly destroy from her man and beast; and I will make it desolate. And from out of Teman, and from out of Ledan the ones being pursued shall fall by the broadsword.
EZE 25:14 And I will execute my vengeance against Edom by the hand of my people Israel. And they shall deal with Edom according to my anger, and according to my rage; and they shall realize my vengeance, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 25:15 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Because the Philistines did with vengeance, and raised up vengeance rejoicing from their soul to wipe them away unto the eon;
EZE 25:16 on account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I shall stretch out my hand against the Philistines, and will utterly destroy the Cherethim Cretans.; and I will destroy the ones remaining dwelling on the coast.
EZE 25:17 And I will execute among them great vengeance in rebukes of rage; and they shall realize that I am Adonai the LORD in the executing of my vengeance upon them.
EZE 26:1 And it took place in the eleventh year, day one of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 26:2 O son of man, because Sor said against Jerusalem, Well done, she was broken, she destroyed the nations, she was turned to me, the one full was made desolate.
EZE 26:3 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD, Behold, I am against you, O Sor, and I will lead against you many nations as the sea ascends with her waves.
EZE 26:4 And they shall throw down the walls of Sor; and they shall throw down your towers. And I will winnow her dust from her, and I will make her into a smooth rock.
EZE 26:5 She will be for a refreshing of dragnets in the midst of the sea. For I have spoken, says Adonai the LORD; and she will be for plunder to the nations.
EZE 26:6 And her daughters in the plain shall be done away with by sword; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 26:7 For thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I bring against you, O Sor, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the north ( he is king of kings ) with horses, and chariots, and horsemen, and a gathering of many nations, exceedingly.
EZE 26:8 This one will do away with your daughters in the plain by the sword. And he will appoint against you an advance guard, and will enclose you, and will put a trench around you, and will enclose upon you with a siege mound round about, and a surrounding of shields, and shall appoint his lances before you.
EZE 26:9 He will demolish your walls and your towers with his own weapons.
EZE 26:10 From the multitude of his horses their dust shall cover you. And from the sound of his horsemen, and the wheels of his chariots, your walls shall be shaken at his entering your gates, as one entering into a city from the plain.
EZE 26:11 With the hoofs of his horses they shall trample all your squares; they shall do away with your people by sword; and the support of your strength they shall bring down to the ground.
EZE 26:12 And he shall plunder your force, and shall despoil your possessions, and shall throw down your walls, and shall demolish your desirable houses. And your stones, and your wood, and your dust he will cast into the midst of the sea.
EZE 26:13 And he will rest up the multitude of your musicians. And the sound of your psalteries in no way shall be heard any longer.
EZE 26:14 And I will make you for a smooth rock. You will be a place for freshening dragnets. In no way shall you be rebuilt any more; for I the LORD spoke, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 26:15 For thus says the LORD to Sor; Shall not at the sound of your downfall in the moaning of the wounded in the unsheathing of the sword in your midst the islands shake?
EZE 26:16 And all the rulers of the sea shall go down from their thrones, and shall remove their mitres, and shall take off their colored clothes. They shall be startled by a change of state upon the earth. They shall be seated, and shall fear their destruction, and shall moan over you.
EZE 26:17 And they shall take a lamentation over you, and shall say to you, O how you were destroyed, and deposed from the sea, the praiseworthy city, who was strong in her sea, and the ones inhabiting her, the one putting her fear in all her inhabitants.
EZE 26:18 And the islands shall fear from the day of your downfall; and the islands shall be disturbed in the sea from your expedition.
EZE 26:19 For thus says the Lord the LORD; Whenever I should appoint you a city for being made desolate, as the cities not being dwelt, in my leading the deep upon you, and much water shall cover you up;
EZE 26:20 that I will bring you down to the ones having gone down into the pit, to the people of the eon, and shall settle you into the depths of the earth, as an eternal desolation, with ones going down into the pit, so that you should not be inhabited upon the land of life.
EZE 26:21 I will appoint you for destruction, and you shall not exist any longer. And you shall seek, and not find into the eon, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 27:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 27:2 And you, O son of man, take a lamentation against Sor.
EZE 27:3 And you shall say to Sor, to the one dwelling upon the entrance of the sea, to the market-place of the peoples from many islands, Thus says Adonai the LORD to Sor; You said, I invested myself with my beauty.
EZE 27:4 In the heart of the sea are your borders, your sons invested to you beauty.
EZE 27:5 Cedar of Senir was used to build by you; they used fascia planks of cypress from Lebanon; fir was taken to make masts for you.
EZE 27:6 From out of Bashan they made your oars; they made your temples from out of ivory, houses of the woods from the islands of the Chittim.
EZE 27:7 Linen with embroidery from out of Egypt was to you for a strewn bed, to put glory upon you, and to clothe you in blue and purple from the islands of Elishah; and they became your wraps.
EZE 27:8 And your rulers dwelling in Sidon, and Arvad became your oarsmen. Your wise ones, O Sor, the ones who were among you, these were your navigators.
EZE 27:9 The elders of the Biblians, and their wise ones who were among you, these grew in strength for your counsel. And all the boats of the sea and their oarsmen came to you from the descent of the west.
EZE 27:10 Persians and Lidians and Libyans were men among your force, of your warriors - they hung shields and helmets among you; these gave you glory.
EZE 27:11 Sons of Arvad, and your force were upon your walls round about. But also Medes in your towers were guards. They hung their quivers upon your moorings; round about these they perfected your beauty.
EZE 27:12 Carthaginians were your merchants because of the abundance of all your strength; silver, and gold, and brass, and iron, and tin, and lead they put in your market.
EZE 27:13 Greece, and the whole world, and the places extending, these traded with you in lives of men; and items of brass they gave for your trade.
EZE 27:14 From out of the house of Torgarmah, horses and horsemen and mules they gave for your market.
EZE 27:15 The sons of the Rhodians were your merchants; from the islands they multiplied your trade, even teeth of ivory; and to the ones bringing, you repaid with your wages,
EZE 27:16 of men for your trading, from the multitude of your consolidation; balsam, and purple, and linen, and colored works from out of Tharsis; and Ramoth and Chohor gave for your market.
EZE 27:17 Judah, and the sons of Israel, these were your merchants in the sale of grain and perfumed liquids; and foremost honey and olive oil and balm they gave unto your consolidation.
EZE 27:18 Damascus was your trade in the abundance of your works, from an abundance of your power; wine from Helbon, and shining wool from Miletus.
EZE 27:19 Dan and Javan and Moozel were for your market; iron for working implements and wheels are among your consolidation.
EZE 27:20 Dedan were your merchants with choice animals for chariots.
EZE 27:21 Arabia, and all the rulers of Kedar, these were your merchants trading camels through your hand, and lambs, and rams in which they traded with you.
EZE 27:22 Your merchants were Sheba and Raamah, these were your merchants with foremost of spices, and precious stones; and they gave gold for your market.
EZE 27:23 Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, these were your merchants; Sheba, and Assyria, and Chilmad, were your merchants;
EZE 27:24 bringing trade of blue, and choice treasures being bound in rough cords, and cypress.
EZE 27:25 Boats among them were your merchants in the abundance of your consolidations. And you were filled up and weighed down exceedingly in the heart of the seas.
EZE 27:26 Your oarsmen led you into much water; the wind of the south broke you in the heart of the sea.
EZE 27:27 Your force, and your wage, and your consolidations, and your oarsmen, and your navigators, and your counselors, and your consolidations from out of your consolidations, and all the men, your warriors among you, and your whole gathering in the midst of you shall fall in the heart of the sea in the day of your downfall.
EZE 27:28 At the sound of your cry your navigators shall be afraid with fear.
EZE 27:29 And all your oarsmen shall go down from their boats, and the crewmen, and the captains of the sea; they shall stand upon the ground.
EZE 27:30 And they shall shout over you with their voice, and shall cry out bitterly, and shall place earth upon their head, and shall spread a bed of ashes.
EZE 27:31 And they shall shave because of you unto baldness; and they shall gird on sackcloth, and shall weep over you in bitterness of life, even lamenting bitterly.
EZE 27:32 Their sons shall take a lamentation over you and a wailing, Sor, Who is as Tyre observing silence in the middle of the sea?
EZE 27:33 How much wage did you find from the sea? You filled up nations from your abundance, and from your consolidation you enriched all the kings of the earth.
EZE 27:34 But now you are broken in the sea; your consolidation and all your gathering is in the depth of the water in your midst. All your oarsmen fell.
EZE 27:35 All the ones dwelling the islands shall be gloomy over you, and their kings shall be amazed with a change of state, and their countenance shall burst into tears.
EZE 27:36 Merchants from the nations whistled at you; you became for destruction, and no longer will you be into the eon.
EZE 28:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 28:2 And you, O son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre! Thus says Adonai the LORD; because your heart was raised up high, and you said, I am the God, I inhabited the dwelling of God in the heart of the sea. But you are a man, and not God, and you made your heart as the heart of God.
EZE 28:3 Are you wiser than Daniel, or did not wise ones correct you with their higher knowledge?
EZE 28:4 Is it by your higher knowledge, or in your intelligence you produced for yourself power, and you procured gold and silver among your treasures?
EZE 28:5 Or by your much higher knowledge and in your trade did you multiply your power, and raise up high your heart by your power?
EZE 28:6 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD, Since you imputed your heart as the heart of God;
EZE 28:7 for this, behold, I bring upon you strange pestilent ones from the nations. And they shall empty out their swords against you; against the beauty of your higher knowledge, and they shall spread your beauty unto destruction.
EZE 28:8 And they shall bring you down, and you shall die by death of the slain in the heart of the sea.
EZE 28:9 In saying, will you say, I am God, in the presence of the ones doing away with you? But you are a man, and not God in the hand of ones piercing you.
EZE 28:10 In deaths of the uncircumcised you shall die by the hands of strangers; for I spoke, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 28:11 And came the word of the LORD to me, saying,
EZE 28:12 O son of man, take a lamentation over the ruler of Tyre, and say to him! Thus says Adonai the LORD, You are a seal of likeness full of wisdom, and a crown of beauty.
EZE 28:13 You were in the luxury of the paradise of God; you bound on every precious stone - sardius, and topaz, and emerald, and carbuncle, and sapphire, and jasper, and silver, and gold, and amber, and agate, and amethyst, and chrysolite, and beryl, and onyx. And with gold you filled up your treasuries and your storehouses among you.
EZE 28:14 From which day you were created, and you were carefully prepared with the cherub being anointed by God, and encamping in the tent, even I put you on the holy mount of God; you existed among the midst of the stones of fire.
EZE 28:15 You were unblemished in your days of which day you were created, until of which time the offences were found in you.
EZE 28:16 From the abundance of your trade you filled your storerooms with lawlessness, and sinned. And you were wounded from the mountain of God, and the cherub overshadowing led you from out of the midst of the stones of fire.
EZE 28:17 Your heart was raised up high over your beauty; your higher knowledge was corrupted with your beauty, because of the multitude of your sins. I tossed you upon the earth; I put you before kings to be made an example.
EZE 28:18 Because of the multitude of your sins, and the iniquities of your trade, you profaned your temples; and I will lead fire from out of your midst, this shall devour you; and I will put you for ashes upon the earth before all the ones seeing you.
EZE 28:19 And all the ones knowing you among the nations shall be gloomy over you; you became for destruction, and you shall not exist any longer into the eon.
EZE 28:20 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 28:21 O son of man, firmly fix your face against Sidon, and prophesy against it!
EZE 28:22 And say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I am against you Sidon; and I shall be glorified in you. And you shall know that I am the LORD, in my executing judgments among you; and I shall be sanctified among you.
EZE 28:23 And I shall send out against you death and blood in your squares; and there shall fall men being wounded by swords among you, surrounding you; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 28:24 And there will not be any longer in the house of Israel a barb of bitterness, nor a thorn of grief from all the ones surrounding them, of the ones dishonoring them; and they shall know that I am Adonai the LORD.
EZE 28:25 Thus says Adonai the LORD; And I will gather the house of Israel from out of the nations of which they were dispersed there. And I will be sanctified among them before the peoples, and the nations. And they shall dwell upon their land which I gave to my servant Jacob.
EZE 28:26 And they shall dwell upon it in hope. And they shall build houses, and shall plant vineyards, and shall dwell in hope, whenever I execute judgment on all the ones dishonoring them, among the ones round about them; and they shall know that I am the LORD their God, and the God of their fathers.
EZE 29:1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, day one of the month, the word of the LORD came to me saying,
EZE 29:2 O son of man, firmly fix your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against entire Egypt!
EZE 29:3 Speak and say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I am against you, O Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon lying in wait in the midst of his rivers. The one saying, The rivers are mine, and I made them.
EZE 29:4 And I will put snares into your jaws, and I will cleave the fishes of your river to your wings. And I will lead you from out of the midst of your river; and all the fishes of the river I will cleave to your scales.
EZE 29:5 And I will throw you down quickly, and all the fishes of your river. Upon the face of the plain you shall fall, and no way shall you be brought together; and no way shall you be screened. To the wild beasts of the earth, and to the winged creatures of the heaven I have given you for a thing to be devoured.
EZE 29:6 And all the ones dwelling Egypt shall know that I am the LORD, because you became a rod of reed to the house of Israel.
EZE 29:7 When they took hold of you with their hand, then you were fractured; and when every hand prevailed against them, and when they rested upon you, you were broken; and you broke the loin of all of them.
EZE 29:8 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I bring upon you the broadsword; and I will destroy men from you, and beasts.
EZE 29:9 And the land of Egypt will be for destruction and desolation; and they shall know that I am the LORD, because of your saying, The rivers are mine and I made them.
EZE 29:10 On account of this, behold, I am against you, and against all your rivers, and I will give the land of Egypt unto desolation, broadsword, and destruction, from Migdol and Syene even unto the borders of the Ethiopians.
EZE 29:11 In no way shall there go through by it the foot of a man; and the foot of a beast in no way shall go through it, and it shall not be inhabited forty years.
EZE 29:12 And I will appoint her land for destruction in the midst of a land being made desolated, and her cities shall be in the midst of cities being made desolated for extinction forty years. And I will scatter Egypt among the nations, and I will winnow them among the places.
EZE 29:13 Thus says Adonai the LORD, After forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the nations of which they were dispersed there.
EZE 29:14 And I will return the captivity of the Egyptians, and I will settle them in the land of Phathros, in the land from where they were taken; and it will be a humble rule there,
EZE 29:15 more than all the rules, it shall be least to not be raised up high any more over the nations. And I will make them very few, so as for them to not be many among the nations.
EZE 29:16 And no longer will they be any more for a hope to the house of Israel, calling to mind lawlessness in their following after them. And they shall know that I am Adonai the LORD.
EZE 29:17 And it came to pass in the seventh and twentieth year, day one of the first month, came the word of the LORD to me, saying,
EZE 29:18 O son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon reduced to slavery his force for a great service against Tyre. Every head was bald and every shoulder loose of hair. And a wage existed not to him, and his force was against Tyre, for the service of which they served against it.
EZE 29:19 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I give to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon the land of Egypt; and he shall despoil her spoils, and he shall plunder her plunder; and it will be the wage for his force.
EZE 29:20 In return for his ministration of which he served against Tyre, I have given to him the land of Egypt, because of as much as he worked to me, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 29:21 In that day there shall rise up a horn to all the house of Israel, and I will give to you a mouth being opened in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 30:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 30:2 O son of man, Prophesy and say! Thus says Adonai the LORD; O, O the day;
EZE 30:3 for the day of the LORD is near, even the day of the LORD approaches. It will be a day of cloud and a time of nations.
EZE 30:4 And a sword shall come against the Egyptians, and there will be a disturbance in the land of Ethiopia, and they shall fall being slain in Egypt, and they shall take of her abundance, and her foundations shall be cast down.
EZE 30:5 Persians, and Cretans and Lydians, and Libyans, and Ethiopians, and all the intermixed peoples, and of the sons of my covenant shall fall by the sword with them.
EZE 30:6 Thus says Adonai the LORD; And the supports of Egypt shall fall, and the insolence of her strength shall go down from Migdol unto Syene; they shall fall by the sword in her, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 30:7 And it shall be made desolate in the midst of places being obliterated, and her cities will be in the midst of cities being made desolate.
EZE 30:8 And they shall know that I am the LORD, whenever I shall appoint fire against Egypt, and all the ones helping her shall be broken.
EZE 30:9 In that day shall come forth messengers hastening to obliterate the hope of Ethiopia, and there will be a disturbance among them in the day of Egypt; for behold, it is come.
EZE 30:10 Thus says Adonai the LORD; And I will destroy the multitude of the Egyptians by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon;
EZE 30:11 he and his people with him, the pestilent ones from nations being sent to destroy the land. And they shall all empty out their swords against Egypt, and shall fill the land with slain.
EZE 30:12 And I will make their rivers desolate, and I will render the land by the hand of evil ones; and I will obliterate the land, and its fullness, by the hands of strangers. I the LORD have spoken.
EZE 30:13 For thus says the LORD God; And I will destroy the abominations, and I will rest the great ones from Memphis, and the rulers from the land of Egypt; and they will not be any longer. And I will put fear in the land of Egypt.
EZE 30:14 And I will destroy the land of Pathros, and I will put fire upon Tanis, and I will execute punishment in Diospolis.
EZE 30:15 And I will pour out my rage upon Sin, the strength of Egypt. And I will destroy the multitude of Memphis.
EZE 30:16 And I will appoint fire unto Egypt. And Sin shall be disturbed with a disturbance, and in Diospolis there will be inundation, and waters shall be dispersed.
EZE 30:17 Young men of Heliopolis and Bubastum shall fall by the sword, and the women shall go into captivity.
EZE 30:18 And in Tehaphnehes the day shall darken in my breaking there the chiefdoms of Egypt. And the insolence of her strength shall perish there. And a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall be led captives.
EZE 30:19 And I will execute judgment on Egypt. And they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 30:20 And it took place in the eleventh year, in the first month, the seventh of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 30:21 O son of man, I broke the arms of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and behold, it was not earnestly beseeched to give to him healing, to put upon him a dressing, to be given strength to take hold of the sword.
EZE 30:22 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and I will break his arms, the strong ones, and the ones being broken; and I will throw down his sword from out of his hand.
EZE 30:23 And I will scatter Egypt into the nations, and will winnow them into the places.
EZE 30:24 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and will put my broadsword into his hand. And he shall bring it upon Egypt, and shall plunder her plunder, and shall despoil her spoils.
EZE 30:25 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall; and they shall know that I am the LORD in my putting the broadsword into the hands of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it against the land of Egypt.
EZE 30:26 And I will scatter Egypt into the nations, and shall winnow them into the places; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 31:1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third month, day one of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 31:2 O son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude! To whom did you liken yourself in your haughtiness?
EZE 31:3 Behold, Assyria was a cypress in Lebanon, and goodly in shoots, and dense in the protection, and high in size, and his top came into the midst of the clouds.
EZE 31:4 Water nourished him, the deep made him rise up high, she led the rivers round about his plants, and sent forth her collections of water unto all the trees of the field.
EZE 31:5 Because of this, his greatness was raised up high over all the trees of the field, and his tender branches were multiplied, and his shoots were raised up high over much water, in his stretching out.
EZE 31:6 In his shoots nested all the birds of the heaven, and underneath his tender branches all the wild beasts of the plain procreated; in his shadow dwelt all the multitude of nations.
EZE 31:7 And he became good in his height, because of the multitude of his tender branches; for his roots existed among much water.
EZE 31:8 And such cypresses in the paradise of God, and the pines were not likened to his shoots; and fir trees became not likened to his branches; every tree in the paradise of God was not likened to him in his beauty.
EZE 31:9 Because of the multitude of his tender branches I made him good in the multitude of his tender branches. And the trees of the paradise of the delicacy of God were jealous of him.
EZE 31:10 On account of this, thus says Adonai the LORD; Because you became great to greatness, and you put your top into the midst of clouds; and his heart was lifted up unto his height;
EZE 31:11 even I delivered him up into the hands of the ruler of the nations; and he caused his destruction.
EZE 31:12 And strangers utterly destroyed him, pestilent ones from the nations. And they threw him down upon the mountains. In all the ravines his tender branches fell; and his trunks were broken in every plain of the land; and all the peoples of the nations went down from his protection, and they dashed him.
EZE 31:13 All the birds of the heaven rested upon his downfall; and upon his trunks existed all the wild beasts of the field,
EZE 31:14 so that all the trees by the water should not be exalted in their greatness, and put not their top into the midst of clouds, and all the ones drinking water stand not in their height against him. All were given unto death in the depth of the earth, in the midst of the sons of men going down into the pit.
EZE 31:15 Thus says Adonai the LORD; In which day he went down into Hades, the abyss mourned him. And I attended to her rivers, and restrained the abundance of water. And Lebanon was darkened over him; all the trees of the plains were enfeebled by him.
EZE 31:16 From the sound of his downfall the nations shook, when I brought him down unto Hades with the ones going down into the pit. And all the trees of the delicacy comforted him in lowermost earth, and the chosen ones and the best ones of Lebanon, all the ones drinking water.
EZE 31:17 For also even they went down with him into Hades with the ones slain by the sword; and his seed dwelling under his protection were destroyed in the middle of their life.
EZE 31:18 To whom are you likened in power, and in glory, and in greatness among the trees of the delicacy? Go down with the trees of the delicacy into the depth of the earth! You shall sleep in the midst of uncircumcised with ones slain by sword. Thus Pharaoh and all the multitude of his strength, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 32:1 And it took place in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, day one of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 32:2 O son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of Egypt! And you shall say to him, You were likened to a lion of nations, and as a dragon in the sea. And you gored in your rivers, and disturbed water with your feet, and trampled your rivers.
EZE 32:3 Thus says Adonai the LORD; And I will put my net upon you by an assembly of many peoples; and I will lead you by my hook.
EZE 32:4 And I will stretch you upon the earth; the plains shall be filled. And I shall set upon you all the birds of the heaven, and I will fill up by you all the wild beasts of all the earth.
EZE 32:5 And I will put your flesh upon the mountains, and will fill up ravines of your blood.
EZE 32:6 And I will water the earth from your excrement; from your multitude upon the mountains I will fill up the ravines from you.
EZE 32:7 And I will cover up the heaven in your being extinguished, and I will darken his stars; I will cover the sun by a cloud, and the moon - in no way shall her light appear.
EZE 32:8 All the things shining light in the heaven shall darken over you, and I will appoint darkness over your land, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 32:9 And I will provoke to anger the heart of many peoples, whenever I lead you as a captivity into the nations, into a land which you knew not.
EZE 32:10 And many nations shall be gloomy over you; and their kings shall be amazed by a change of state in the flying of my broadsword unto their faces, the ones waiting for their downfall, from the day of your downfall.
EZE 32:11 For thus says the Lord the LORD; The broadsword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you.
EZE 32:12 With swords of giants even I shall throw down your strength, pestilent ones from all nations. And they shall destroy the insolence of Egypt, and all her strength shall be broken.
EZE 32:13 And I will destroy all her cattle from great water; and in no way shall a foot of man disturb it any more; and the track of cattle in no way shall trample it.
EZE 32:14 Then shall their waters be still, and their rivers shall go forth as oil, says Adonai the LORD.
EZE 32:15 Whenever I shall give Egypt unto destruction, and the land shall be made desolate with the fullness of her; whenever I shall scatter all the ones dwelling in her, even they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 32:16 There is a lamentation and they shall lament him; and the daughters of the nations shall lament him over Egypt; and over all her strength they shall lament her, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 32:17 And it happened in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth of the month, the word of the LORD came to me saying,
EZE 32:18 O son of man, lament over the multitude of Egypt! For the daughters shall bring her down; even the nations dead into the depths of the earth, to the ones going down into the pit.
EZE 32:19 From good-looking waters descend and sleep with the uncircumcised!
EZE 32:20 Among the midst of ones slain by sword they shall fall with him, and all of his strength shall sleep.
EZE 32:21 And the giants shall say to you in the depth of the pit, You are not best. Go down and sleep with the ones uncircumcised in the midst of the ones slain by sword!
EZE 32:22 There is Assyria and all his gathering round about his grave; all slain having fallen by the sword.
EZE 32:23 The ones given his graves in the sides of the pit, and his gathering existed surrounding his tomb. All the slain having fallen by the sword, the ones giving them fear upon the land of life.
EZE 32:24 There is Elam and all his force surrounding his tomb; all the slain having fallen by the sword, and the ones going down uncircumcised into the depth of the earth, putting the fear of them upon the land of life; and they took their torment with the ones going down into the pit.
EZE 32:25 In the midst of the slain.
EZE 32:26 There they put Meshech and Tubal, and all his strength surrounding his tomb; all his slain ones, all the uncircumcised ones, slain ones by the sword, the ones putting their fear upon the land of life.
EZE 32:27 And they sleep with the giants having fallen from the eon, who went down into Hades with weapons of warfare; and they put their swords under their heads, and their lawless deeds came upon their bones, for they were frightening giants during their life.
EZE 32:28 And you shall be destroyed in the midst of the uncircumcised, and shall sleep with the ones being slain by sword.
EZE 32:29 There is Edom, and her kings, and all the rulers. Assyria, the ones giving their strength to the wound of the sword; these sleep with the slain, with the ones going down into the pit.
EZE 32:30 There are the rulers of the north, all these, all the commandants of Assyria, going down with the slain; with the fear of them, and in their strength being ashamed, they sleep uncircumcised with ones slain of the sword; and they carry away their torment with the ones going down into the pit.
EZE 32:31 Those king Pharaoh shall see, and he shall be comforted over all their strength. Slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his force, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 32:32 For I have put the fear of him upon the land of life; yet he shall sleep in the midst of the uncircumcised with ones slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 33:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 33:2 O son of man, speak to the sons of your people! And you shall say to them, A land upon which ever I bring a broadsword - even the people of the land should take one man from out of them, and shall put him for themselves as a watchman.
EZE 33:3 And if one should behold the broadsword coming upon the land, and he should trump the trumpet, and should signify to the people,
EZE 33:4 and the one hearing shall hear the sound of the trumpet, and should not take guard, and the broadsword comes and overtakes him, his blood shall be upon his own head.
EZE 33:5 For hearing the sound of the trumpet, he did not take guard; his blood shall be upon him. But this one that guarded rescued his life.
EZE 33:6 And the watchman, if he should behold the broadsword coming, and should not signify by the trumpet, and the people should not take guard; and coming, the broadsword should take from out of them a soul, this soul is taken on account of its lawlessness; but the blood of the hand of the watchman I will require.
EZE 33:7 And you, O son of man, I have appointed you as watchman to the house of Israel; and you shall hear a word from out of my mouth, and you shall announce to them from me.
EZE 33:8 And in my saying to the sinner, To death you shall die; and you should not speak to guard the impious one from his way, he, the lawless one, shall die of his lawlessness; but his blood I will require of your hand.
EZE 33:9 But you, if you should forewarn the impious one of his way to turn from it; and he should not turn from his way, this one shall die in his impiety; but you rescued your own soul.
EZE 33:10 And you, O son of man, say to the house of Israel! Thus you spoke, saying, Our delusions and our lawless deeds are upon us, and in them we melt away - and how then shall we live?
EZE 33:11 Say to them! As I live, says Adonai the LORD, I want not the death of the impious one; but as for the impious one to turn from his way, and for him to live. By turning you turn from your evil way! For why do you die, O house of Israel?
EZE 33:12 And you, O son of man, say to the sons of your people! The righteousness of a just one in no way should rescue him, in which ever day he should wander. And the lawlessness of an impious one - in no way should he inflict evil on him in which ever day he should turn from his lawlessness. But a just one in no way shall be able to be delivered in the day of his sin.
EZE 33:13 In my saying to the just one he shall live to life; and this one has relied upon his righteousness, and should commit lawlessness, all his righteousness in no way shall be called to mind; in his iniquity in which he committed, in it he shall die.
EZE 33:14 And in my saying to the impious one, To death you shall be put to death; and he shall turn from his sin, and shall execute equity and righteousness,
EZE 33:15 and should give back collateral, and should pay back for any seizures, and should travel in the orders of life, to not do unjustly - to life he shall live, and in no way shall he die.
EZE 33:16 All his sins which he sinned in no way shall be called to mind, for he observed equity and righteousness - by them he shall live.
EZE 33:17 And the sons of your people shall say, the way of the LORD is not right. But this their way is not right.
EZE 33:18 In the turning of a just one from his righteousness, and he should commit lawless deeds - he shall die in them.
EZE 33:19 And in the sinner turning from his lawlessness, and should observe equity and righteousness - by them he shall live.
EZE 33:20 And you said, The way of the LORD is not straight. I will judge you each by his ways, O house of Israel.
EZE 33:21 And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the tenth month, the fifth of the month of our captivity, there came to me one having escaped from Jerusalem, saying, the city is captured.
EZE 33:22 And the hand of the LORD came upon me at evening before he came. And he opened my mouth as he came to me in the morning; and in opening, my mouth was not held together any longer.
EZE 33:23 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 33:24 O son of man, the ones inhabiting the places being made desolate upon the land of Israel, speaking, they say, Abraham was one, and he held down the land; and we, we are many; the land was given to us for a possession.
EZE 33:25 On account of this say to them! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Since you chew upon food with blood, and lift your eyes unto your abominations, and pour out blood - then shall you inherit the land?
EZE 33:26 And you stood with your broadswords, you did loathsome things, and each tainted the wife of his neighbor - then shall you inherit the land?
EZE 33:27 Thus say to them! Thus says the Lord the LORD; As I live, assuredly the ones in the places being made desolate shall fall by swords, and the ones upon the face of the plain shall be given to the wild beasts of the field for a thing to be devoured, and the ones behind the places being walled, and the ones in the caves I will kill by plague.
EZE 33:28 And I will make the land a wilderness; and the insolence of her strength shall perish; and the mountains of Israel shall be made desolate, on account of the not being anyone traveling through.
EZE 33:29 And they shall know that I am the LORD. And I will make their land wilderness; and it shall be made desolate on account of all their abominations which they did.
EZE 33:30 And you, O son of man, the sons of your people speaking concerning you by the walls and in the gatehouses of the houses, and each speaks to his brother, saying, We should come together and should hear the goings forth from the LORD.
EZE 33:31 And they come to you as a people going with one another, and sit down before you, and hear your sayings, but in no way will they do them, for the lie is in their mouth, and their heart goes after their defilements.
EZE 33:32 And should you become to them as the sound of a sweet sounding well-tuned psaltery, and they shall hear your words, but no way shall they do them,
EZE 33:33 that when ever it should come to pass, they shall say, Behold, it is come; and they shall know that a prophet was in their midst.
EZE 34:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 34:2 O son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel! Prophesy, and say to the shepherds! Thus says the Lord the LORD; O shepherds of Israel, shall the shepherds graze themselves? Do not the shepherds graze the sheep?
EZE 34:3 Behold, you devour the milk, and the wool you put around yourselves, and the robust you slay, and my sheep you graze not.
EZE 34:4 The ones being weak you strengthen not, and the ill having a sickness you rejuvenated not, and the broken you did not bind up, and the one wandering you did not turn back, and the lost you did not seek after, and the strong you worked in trouble.
EZE 34:5 And my sheep were scattered on account of the not being shepherds; and my sheep became for a thing devoured by all the wild beasts of the field.
EZE 34:6 And my sheep were scattered in every mountain, and upon every high hill; and they were scattered upon the face of all the earth, and there was not one seeking after them, nor turning them back.
EZE 34:7 On account of this, O shepherds, hear the word of the LORD!
EZE 34:8 As I live, says the Lord the LORD, assuredly instead my sheep became for plunder, and my sheep became for a thing to be devoured by all the wild beasts of the plain, because of the not being shepherds; and the shepherds sought not after my sheep; and the shepherds grazed themselves, but my sheep they grazed not.
EZE 34:9 On account of this, O shepherds, hear the word of the LORD!
EZE 34:10 Thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep from out of their hands. And I will turn them away to not tend my sheep; and the shepherds shall not graze any longer them. And I shall rescue my sheep from out of their mouth, and they will not be themselves any longer for a thing devoured.
EZE 34:11 For thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I shall seek after my sheep, and I shall visit them.
EZE 34:12 As if the shepherd seeks his flock in the day whenever there might be dimness and cloud in the midst of his sheep having been parted, so shall I seek after my sheep. And I will drive them away from every place of which they were scattered there, in the day of cloud and dimness.
EZE 34:13 And I will lead them from out of the nations, and will gather them from the regions, and will bring them into their land, and will graze them upon the mountains of Israel, and in the ravines, and in every dwelling of the land.
EZE 34:14 I will graze them in good pasture on the high mountain of Israel, and their havens will be there. And they shall sleep there, and they shall rest in good luxury, and they shall graze in a plentiful pasture upon the mountains of Israel.
EZE 34:15 I will graze my sheep, and I will rest them; thus says the Lord the LORD,
EZE 34:16 The lost I will seek, and the one wandering I will return, and the one being broken I will bind, and the one faltering I will strengthen, and the strong I will guard, and I will graze them with equity.
EZE 34:17 And you, my sheep, thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I separate between sheep and sheep, rams and he-goats.
EZE 34:18 And is it not enough to you that you fed on the good pasture, and the rest of your pasture you trampled by your feet? And the place of water you drank, and the rest you disturbed by your feet?
EZE 34:19 And my sheep fed on the things trampled upon by your feet; and they drank the disturbed water under your feet.
EZE 34:20 On account of this, thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I separate between the strong sheep and weak.
EZE 34:21 With the sides and your shoulders you pushed away, and with your horns you gored, and all the faltering you squeezed out, until of which time you thrust them outside.
EZE 34:22 And I will deliver my sheep, and no way should they be yet for plunder; and I will judge between ram to ram.
EZE 34:23 And I shall raise up for them one shepherd, and he will tend them as my servant David. He will tend them, and he will be their shepherd.
EZE 34:24 And I the LORD will be to them for God, and my servant David in the midst of them a ruler; I the LORD have spoken.
EZE 34:25 And I will ordain with them a covenant of peace, and will obliterate the ferocious wild beasts from the land. And they shall dwell in the wilderness, and shall sleep in the forests.
EZE 34:26 And I will put them surrounding my mountain; and I will give rain according to its time - a rain of blessing.
EZE 34:27 And the trees in the plain will yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield her strength, and they shall dwell upon their land in a hope of peace, And they shall know that I am the LORD in my breaking the chain of their yoke; and I will rescue them from out of the hand of the ones reducing them to slavery.
EZE 34:28 And they shall not be any longer for plunder by the nations. And the wild beasts of the land no longer in any way shall eat them. And they shall dwell in hope, and there shall not be the one frightening them.
EZE 34:29 And I will raise up to them a plant of peace, and no longer shall they be ones being destroyed by hunger upon the land; and in no way they shall bear any longer the scorning of nations.
EZE 34:30 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God with them, and they are my people, O house of Israel, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 34:31 And you are my sheep, even sheep of my pasture - you are a man, and I am the LORD your God, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 35:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 35:2 O son of man, turn your face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it!
EZE 35:3 And say to it! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I am against you mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will make you into a wilderness, and you shall be made desolate.
EZE 35:4 And I will make your cities desolate, and you will be a wilderness, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 35:5 Because you became an eternal enemy, and sat in place against the house of Israel with treachery, by the hand of enemies with a sword, in time of iniquity, at the last.
EZE 35:6 On account of this, as I live, says the Lord the LORD; Since you sinned unto blood, even blood shall pursue you. And blood you detested, even blood shall pursue you.
EZE 35:7 And I will appoint mount Seir for a wilderness, and for being made desolate, and will destroy from it men and beasts.
EZE 35:8 And I will fill up your hills and your ravines of the slain; and in all your plains ones being slain by the sword shall fall among you.
EZE 35:9 I will establish you an eternal desolation, and your cities no way shall be inhabited any longer; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 35:10 On account of your saying, The two nations, and the two places will be mine, and I shall inherit them - and the LORD is there.
EZE 35:11 On account of this, as I live, says the LORD, even I will do to you according to your hatred, and according to your zeal which you did in your detesting them; and I will be known to you whenever I judge you.
EZE 35:12 And you shall know that I am the LORD. I heard the voice of your blasphemies, that you said, The wilderness mountains of Israel have been given to us for a thing to be devoured.
EZE 35:13 And you spoke great words against me with your mouth, and you called out loud against me. Your words I heard.
EZE 35:14 Thus says the LORD, In the gladness of all the earth, I will make you a wilderness.
EZE 35:15 As you were glad in the inheritance of the house of Israel, that it was obliterated, thus I shall do you. For you will be a wilderness, O mount Seir, and all Edom shall be completely consumed. And you shall know that I am the LORD God.
EZE 36:1 And you, O son of man, prophesy against the mountains of Israel, and say to the mountains of Israel! Hear the word of the LORD!
EZE 36:2 Thus says the Lord the LORD; Because the enemy said against you, Well done, for now the eternal desolate places became our possession.
EZE 36:3 On account of this, prophesy and say! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Because of you being dishonored, and being detested by the ones round about you, for you to be for a possession to the rest of the nations, then you ascended as a tongue of discussion, and a scorn to nations.
EZE 36:4 On account of this, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD. Thus says the LORD to the mountains, and to the hills, and to the rushing streams, and to the ravines, and to the places being made quite desolate and being obliterated, and to the cities being abandoned and became for plunder and for trampling to the surrounding nations being left behind.
EZE 36:5 On account of this, thus says the Lord the LORD; Assuredly by fire of my rage I spoke against the remaining nations, and against all Edom; for they gave my land to themselves for a possession with gladness, dishonoring lives, to obliterate in plunder.
EZE 36:6 On account of this, prophesy over the land of Israel, and say to the mountains, and to the hills, and to the ravines, and to the groves! Thus says the LORD; Behold, I in my zeal and in my rage spoke against your scorning, which nations bore to you.
EZE 36:7 On account of this, thus says the Lord the LORD; I shall lift my hand against the nations surrounding you; these shall bear their dishonor.
EZE 36:8 But you, O mountains of Israel, my people shall eat the grape and your fruit; for they are hoping to come.
EZE 36:9 For behold, I am for you, and I will look upon you, and you shall be worked and sown.
EZE 36:10 And I will multiply men upon you, all the house of Israel - to the end. And the cities shall be inhabited, and the place being made desolate shall be built.
EZE 36:11 And I will multiply upon you men and cattle; and they shall be multiplied, and shall be increased. And I will settle you as the time in your beginning. And I will do you good as the things prior of you. And you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 36:12 And I will engender unto you men against of my people Israel. And they shall inherit you, and you will be to them for a possession, and in no way shall you be added still to be made childless of them.
EZE 36:13 Thus says the Lord the LORD; Because they said to you, O her devouring men, and you were made childless by your nation.
EZE 36:14 On account of this no longer shall you devour men, and you shall not make your nation childless any more, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 36:15 And dishonor of nations shall not be heard any longer against you, and the scorning of peoples no way shall you bear any more, and your nation shall not be childless still, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 36:16 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 36:17 O son of man, the house of Israel dwelt upon their land, and defiled it by their way, and by their uncleannesses. And according to the uncleanness of a woman sitting apart was their way before my face.
EZE 36:18 And I poured out my rage upon them for the blood of which they poured out upon the land; and in their abominations they tainted it.
EZE 36:19 And I scattered them into the nations, and winnowed them into the places. According to their way, and according to their sin, I judged them.
EZE 36:20 And they entered unto the nations of which they entered there. And they profaned my holy name in the their saying, These are the people of the LORD, and they went forth from out of his land.
EZE 36:21 And I spared them on account of my holy name, which the house of Israel profaned among the nations of which they entered there.
EZE 36:22 On account of this, say to the house of Israel! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Not to you do I act, O house of Israel, but because of my holy name, which you profaned among the nations of which you entered there.
EZE 36:23 And I will sanctify my great name, the one being profaned among the nations, which you profaned in the midst of them. And the nations shall know that I am the LORD, says the Lord the LORD, in my being sanctified among you before their eyes.
EZE 36:24 And I will take you from out of the nations, and I will gather you from out of all the lands, and I will bring you into your land.
EZE 36:25 And I will sprinkle upon you clean water, and you shall be cleansed from all your uncleannesses; and I will cleanse you from all your idols.
EZE 36:26 And I will put in you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit in you. And I will remove the stone heart from your flesh, and I will give to you a heart of flesh.
EZE 36:27 And I will put my spirit in you, and shall make it that you shall go by my ordinances, and you shall keep my judgments, and shall observe them.
EZE 36:28 And you shall dwell upon the land which I gave to your fathers; and you will be to me for a people, and I will be to you for God.
EZE 36:29 And I will deliver you from out of all your uncleannesses. And I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and I will not appoint you unto famine.
EZE 36:30 And I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the produce of the field, so that you should not take still the scorn of famine among the nations.
EZE 36:31 And you shall remember your evil ways, and your practices, the ones not good. And you shall loathe yourselves in front of them in your lawless deeds, and for your abominations.
EZE 36:32 Not for your sakes do I do this, says the Lord the LORD, it is made known to you. Be ashamed and feel remorse for your ways, O house of Israel!
EZE 36:33 Thus says the Lord the LORD, In the day in which I shall cleanse you from out of all your lawless deeds; and I will settle the cities, and desolate places shall be built up.
EZE 36:34 And the land having been obliterated shall be worked; for reason that it being obliterated according to the eyes of all traveling by.
EZE 36:35 And they shall say, That land being obliterated, has become as a garden of luxury; and the cities, the ones desolate and having been obliterated and having been razed, they sat fortified.
EZE 36:36 And the nations shall know, as many as might be left behind round about you, that I the LORD built up the places having been demolished, and planted the places having been obliterated. For I the LORD spoke, and I will act.
EZE 36:37 Thus says the Lord the LORD; Again for this I shall be sought by the house of Israel to deal with them; I will multiply them - men as sheep.
EZE 36:38 As holy sheep, as sheep of Jerusalem in her holiday feasts; thus the desolate cities will be full of sheep of men. And they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 37:1 And the hand of the LORD came upon me, and led me by spirit of the LORD, and put me in the midst of the plain; and this was full of bones of humans.
EZE 37:2 And he led me unto them round about in a circuit. And behold, exceedingly many were upon the face of the plain - exceedingly dry.
EZE 37:3 And he said to me, O son of man, shall these bones live? And I said, O Lord, O LORD, you know these things.
EZE 37:4 And he said to me, Prophesy over these bones! And you shall say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
EZE 37:5 Thus says the Lord the LORD to these bones, Behold, I shall bring into you a spirit of life.
EZE 37:6 And I will put upon you nerves, and will lead flesh upon you, and will stretch out upon you skin, and will put my spirit into you, and you shall live; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 37:7 And I prophesied as he gave charge to me. And came to pass a sound in my prophesying. And behold, a quake. And came forward the bones, unto a bone unto its joint.
EZE 37:8 And I beheld, and behold, upon them nerves and flesh germinated, and skin ascended upon them above; but there was not a breath in them.
EZE 37:9 And he said to me, Prophesy over the wind! Prophesy, O son of man, and say to the wind! Thus says the Lord the LORD, From out of the four winds, come wind and breathe onto these dead, and let them live!
EZE 37:10 And I prophesied in so far as he gave charge to me, and the wind entered into them, and they lived, and stood upon their feet, a very exceedingly great gathering.
EZE 37:11 And the LORD spoke to me, saying, O son of man, these bones are all the house of Israel. And they say, Our bones are dry, our hope is destroyed, we are perished.
EZE 37:12 On account of this prophesy and say! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I shall open your tombs, and I shall lead you from out of your tombs, and I will bring you into the land of Israel.
EZE 37:13 And you shall know that I am the LORD, by my opening your graves, for me to lead you from out of your graves, O my people.
EZE 37:14 And I will put my spirit into you, and you shall live, and I will put you upon your land. And you shall know that I the LORD have spoken, and will act, says the LORD.
EZE 37:15 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 37:16 And you, O son of man, take to yourself one rod, and write upon it, Judah, and the sons of Israel set before by him! And you shall take to yourself a second rod, and you shall write on it, To Joseph, the rod of Ephraim, and all the sons of Israel set before by him.
EZE 37:17 And you shall join them to one another to yourself, to bind them into one rod; and they will be in your hand.
EZE 37:18 And it will be whenever the sons of your people shall speak to you, saying, Will you not tell to us what these things are to you?
EZE 37:19 And you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD God; Behold, I shall take the tribe of Joseph, the one through the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel lying near to him, and will appoint them unto the tribe of Judah, and they shall be for one rod, and they shall be one in the hand of Judah.
EZE 37:20 And the rods upon which you wrote upon them shall be in your hand before them.
EZE 37:21 And you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I take all the house of Israel from out of the midst of the nations which they entered there. And will gather them from all of the ones surrounding them, and will bring them into the land of Israel.
EZE 37:22 And I will make them one nation in my land on the mountains of Israel; and one ruler will be for all these for king. And they will not be any longer for two nations, nor shall they be divided any longer into two kingdoms;
EZE 37:23 that they should not be defiled any longer by their idols, and in their stumblings, and in all their impieties. And I will rescue them from all their lawless deeds, which they sinned by them; and I will cleanse them. And they will be to me for a people, and I will be to them for God.
EZE 37:24 And my servant David will be ruler in the midst of them; and there will be one shepherd for all. For by my orders they shall go, and my judgments they shall keep, and they shall do them.
EZE 37:25 And they shall dwell upon their land of which I gave to my servant Jacob, of which place their fathers dwelt there. And they shall dwell upon it, they and their sons, and the sons of their sons unto the eon; and David my servant ruling them into the eon.
EZE 37:26 And I will ordain with them a covenant of peace; it will be an eternal covenant with them. And I will put them and multiply them. And I will put my holy things in their midst into the eon.
EZE 37:27 And my shelter will be among them. And I will be to them God, and they will be my people.
EZE 37:28 And the nations shall know that I am the LORD sanctifying them, in the being of my holy things in their midst into the eon.
EZE 38:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
EZE 38:2 O son of man, firmly fix your face against Gog, and the land of Magog, ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him!
EZE 38:3 And say! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I am against you ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
EZE 38:4 And I will lead you about, and will put a bridle into your jaws, and will gather you, and all your force, horses and horsemen, all putting on chest- plates, a great gathering with small shields and helmets and swords;
EZE 38:5 Persians, and Ethiopians, and Libyans; all with helmets and small shields.
EZE 38:6 Gomer, and all the ones around him; the house of Togarmah from the extreme north, and all the ones around him; and many nations with you.
EZE 38:7 Be prepared! Prepare yourself, you and all your gathering being brought together with you! And you will be to me for an advance guard.
EZE 38:8 After many more days he shall be prepared, and upon a latter end of years he shall come unto the land returning from swords, being gathered from many nations upon the land of Israel, which was desolate wholly. And this one comes forth from out of nations, and they shall dwell in peace all together.
EZE 38:9 And you shall ascend as rain, and shall come as a cloud to cover up the land - and you shall be, and all the ones around you, and many nations with you.
EZE 38:10 Thus says the Lord the LORD; And it will be in that day things will ascend upon your heart, and you shall consider wicked devices.
EZE 38:11 And you shall say, I will ascend upon the land having been thrown away; I will come upon ones being still at rest, and living in peace, all dwelling a land in which a wall does not exist, nor bars, and there are not doors among them,
EZE 38:12 to plunder plunder, and to despoil spoils; to turn my hand against the place having been made desolate which was settled, and against a nation being gathered from many nations, having produced possessions, dwelling upon the navel of the earth.
EZE 38:13 Sheba, and Dedan, and merchants of Carthage, and all their towns shall say to you, For plunder are you come to plunder, and to despoil spoils? have you gathered together your gathering to take silver and gold? to carry away property, to despoil great spoils?
EZE 38:14 On account of this, prophesy O son of man, and say to Gog! Thus says the LORD; Will you not in that day, in the settling of my people Israel in peace, arise?
EZE 38:15 And you shall come from out of your place from the extreme of the north, and many nations with you, all riders having horses - a great gathering, and a great force.
EZE 38:16 And you shall ascend against my people Israel, as a cloud to cover the land - at the latter end of the days it will be. And I will lead you against my land, that all the nations shall know me, in my being sanctified among you before them.
EZE 38:17 Thus says the Lord the LORD; O Gog, you are concerning of whom I spoke about in former days by the hand of my servants the prophets of Israel, the ones prophsying in those days and years, to lead you unto them.
EZE 38:18 And it will be in that day, in the day which ever Gog should come against the land of Israel, says the Lord the LORD, my rage shall ascend.
EZE 38:19 And my zeal in fire of my anger I spoke. Assuredly in that day there will be a great quake upon the land of Israel.
EZE 38:20 And the fishes of the sea shall shake before my face, and the birds of the heaven, and the wild beasts of the plain, and all the reptiles crawling upon the earth, and all the men upon the face of the earth. And the mountains shall tear, and the ravines shall fall, and every wall upon the land shall fall.
EZE 38:21 And I will call upon him every fear, says the LORD, the sword of a man will be against his brother.
EZE 38:22 And I will judge him by plague, and blood, and flooding rain, and stones of hail; and fire and sulphur I will rain upon him, and upon all the ones with him, and upon many nations with him.
EZE 38:23 And I will be magnified, and I will be sanctified, and I will be glorified, and I shall be known before many nations, and they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 39:1 And you, O son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say! Thus says the Lord the LORD; Behold, I am against you, O Gog, ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
EZE 39:2 And I will gather you, and will lead you down, and will haul you from the extreme north, and will lead you upon the mountains of Israel.
EZE 39:3 And I will destroy your bow from your left hand, and your arrows from your right hand.
EZE 39:4 And I will throw you down upon the mountains of Israel. And you shall fall, you and all the ones around you. And the nations with you shall be given to a multitude of birds, to every winged creature; and I have given you to all the wild beasts of the plain to be devoured.
EZE 39:5 Upon the face of the plain you shall fall, for I spoke, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 39:6 And I will send fire upon Magog, and the islands shall be inhabited in peace. And they shall know that I am the LORD.
EZE 39:7 And my holy name will be known in the midst of my people Israel; and my holy name shall not be profaned any longer. And the nations shall know that I am the LORD, the holy one in Israel.
EZE 39:8 Behold, it is come, and you shall know that it will be, says the Lord the LORD; this is the day in which I spoke.
EZE 39:9 And the ones dwelling the cities of Israel shall come forth, and shall kindle a fire with the weapons - small shields, and shafts, and bows, and arrows, and rods of the hands, and lances. And they shall kindle with them a fire for seven years.
EZE 39:10 And no way shall they take trees from out of the plain, nor shall they fell trees from out of the groves; but only the weapons shall they incinerate with fire. And they shall plunder the ones plundering them, and shall despoil the ones despoiling them, says the LORD.
EZE 39:11 And it will be in that day, I will appoint to Gog a place of renown - a memorial in Israel, a cemetery of the ones coming by the sea. And they shall enclose the cleft of the ravine, and shall bury Gog there, and all his multitude. And it shall be called then, The Cemetery of Gog.
EZE 39:12 And the house of Israel shall bury them, that the land should be cleansed in seven months.
EZE 39:13 And all the people of the land shall bury them; and it will be to them for a famous place in which day I was glorified, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 39:14 And they shall give orders for men continually for coming over the land to bury the ones being left upon the face of the earth, to cleanse it. After the seven months, and they shall seek.
EZE 39:15 And every one traveling over the land, and seeing the bone of a man, shall build a sign by it, until whenever the ones burying shall bury it in the cemetery of Gog.
EZE 39:16 For even the name of the city is Cemetery; and the land shall be cleansed.
EZE 39:17 And you, son of man, thus says the Lord the LORD; Speak to every winged bird, and to all the wild beasts of the plain! saying, Gather together and come! Be gathered together from all the surrounding places unto my sacrifice which I sacrificed to you, a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel! and you shall eat meats, and drink blood.
EZE 39:18 You shall eat meats of giants, and you shall drink blood of rulers of the earth, of rams, and calves, and he-goats, and the calves all growing fat.
EZE 39:19 And you shall eat fat unto fullness, and you shall drink blood unto intoxication, from my sacrifice in which I sacrificed to you.
EZE 39:20 And you shall be filled from my table - horse, and rider, and giant, and every male warrior, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 39:21 And I will put my glory among you, and all the nations shall see my judgment which I did, and my hand which I brought upon them.
EZE 39:22 And the house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God, from this day and beyond.
EZE 39:23 And all the nations shall know that the house of Israel was captured on account of their sin, because they annulled covenant against me, and I turned my face from them, and delivered them into the hands of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword.
EZE 39:24 Because of their uncleannesses, and because of their violations of the law I did it to them, and I turned my face from them.
EZE 39:25 On account of this, thus says the Lord the LORD; Now I will return the captivity in Jacob, and I will show mercy on the house of Israel, and I will be jealous on account of my holy name.
EZE 39:26 And they shall take their own dishonor, and the iniquity which they transgressed in their settling upon their land in peace, and there will not be one frightening.
EZE 39:27 In my returning them from out of the nations, and my gathering them from out of the places of the nations, even I shall be sanctified among them before the nations.
EZE 39:28 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, in my appearing to them among the nations, in my gathering them upon their land. And I shall not abandon them any more - not one there.
EZE 39:29 And I shall not turn my face any longer from them, because I poured out my rage upon the house of Israel, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 40:1 And it came to pass in the fifth and twentieth year of our captivity, in the first month, the tenth of the month, in the fourteenth year after the capturing the city, in that day the hand of the LORD came upon me,
EZE 40:2 and it led me in a vision of God into the land of Israel, and put me upon an exceedingly high mountain. And upon it was as the construction of a city before me.
EZE 40:3 And he brought me there, and behold, a man. And his appearance was as the appearance of shining brass, and in his hand was a string measure of builders, and a reed measure; and he set them at the gate.
EZE 40:4 And the man said to me, You see, O son of man! With your eyes behold, and with your ears hear, and arrange in your heart all as much as I show to you! For on account of showing to you, you entered here. And I will show all, as much as you see in the house of Israel.
EZE 40:5 And behold, there was an enclosure from outside the house round about, and in the hand of the man was a reed measure of six cubits by a cubit and a palm. And he measured the area around the wall - the width equal to the reed, and the height of it equal to the reed.
EZE 40:6 And he entered into the gate looking according to the east, by seven stairs, and measured the vestibule - six by six; the columned porch of the gate was equal to the reed in width.
EZE 40:7 And the vestibule was equal to the reed in length, and equal to the reed in width; and the columned porch in the midst of the chambers - six cubits. And the second vestibule was equal to the reed in width, and equal to the reed in length; and the columned porch was five cubits.
EZE 40:8 And the third vestibule was equal to the reed in length, and equal to the reed in width.
EZE 40:9 And the columned porch of the gatehouse neighboring the columned porch of the gate was eight cubits, and the portals was two cubits, and the columned porches of the gate were inside.
EZE 40:10 And the columned porch of the gate within, and the vestibule of the gate in front, were three on this side and three on that side; and there was one measure to the three; one measure to the columned porches on this side and that side.
EZE 40:11 And he measured the width of the door of the gatehouse of ten cubits; and the breadth of the gatehouse was thirteen cubits.
EZE 40:12 And one cubit assembling in front of the vestibules; and one cubit border on this side and on that side. And the vestibule was six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.
EZE 40:13 And he measured the gate from the wall of the vestibule unto the wall of the vestibule; the width was twenty five cubits, this gate unto gate.
EZE 40:14 And the open space of the columned porch of the gate was sixty cubits, and to the vestibules of the gate round about.
EZE 40:15 And the open space of the gate outside to the open space of the columned porch of the gate inside was fifty cubits.
EZE 40:16 And there were hidden windows unto the vestibules, and unto the columned porches inside the gate of the courtyard round about, and likewise to the pediment's windows round about inside. And there were palms for the columned porch on this side and that side.
EZE 40:17 And he brought me into the inner courtyard. And behold, there were chambers and peristyles of the courtyard round about - thirty chambers in the peristyles.
EZE 40:18 And the stoas were according to the back of the gates; the peristyle underneath was according to the length of the gates.
EZE 40:19 And he measured the width of the courtyard from the open space of the outer gate unto the inner; unto the open space of the gate inner looking outside - a hundred cubits of the one looking according to the east; and he led me unto the north.
EZE 40:20 And behold, there was a gate looking to the north belonging to the outer courtyard; and he measured it, the length of it, and the width;
EZE 40:21 and the vestibule - three on this side and three on that side; and the portal, and the pediments, and its palms. And it was according to the measures of the gate looking according to the east; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
EZE 40:22 And its windows, and the pediments, and its palms were as the gate looking according to the east. And in seven steps they ascended unto it; and the pediments were within.
EZE 40:23 And there was a gate to the inner courtyard looking towards the gate of the north, in the manner of the gate looking according to the east. And he measured the courtyard from gate unto gate - a hundred cubits.
EZE 40:24 And he led me according to the south, and behold, there was a gate looking to the south; and he measured it, and the vestibules, and the portals, and the pediments according to these measures.
EZE 40:25 And its windows and the pediments round about were as the windows of the columned porch; its length was fifty cubits, and twenty-five cubits its breadth.
EZE 40:26 And there were seven steps for it, and pediments within, and its palms were one on this side and one on that side upon the portals.
EZE 40:27 And there was a gate opposite of the gate of the inner courtyard to the south. And he measured the courtyard from gate unto gate - a hundred cubits was the breadth towards the south.
EZE 40:28 And he brought me into the inner courtyard of the gate towards the south. And he measured the gate according to these measures;
EZE 40:29 and the vestibules, and the portals,
EZE 40:30 and the pediments, according to these measures; and there were windows to it. And to the pediment round about - fifty cubits was the length, and its breadth was twenty-five cubits.
EZE 40:31 And its pediments were to the outer courtyard - palms to the portals, and with eight steps ascending upon it.
EZE 40:32 And he brought me into the inner courtyard, a way according to the east. And he measured the door according to these measures.
EZE 40:33 And the vestibules, and the portals, and the pediments were according to these measures; and its windows and the pediments round about - fifty cubits was the length, and its breadth was twenty-five cubits.
EZE 40:34 And there were pediments opening the inner courtyard, and palms of its portals on this side and that side, and eight steps ascending upon it.
EZE 40:35 And he brought me unto the door towards the north; and he measured according to these measures;
EZE 40:36 and the vestibules, and the portals, and the pediments, and its windows round about - fifty cubits was the length, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
EZE 40:37 And the portals of the outer courtyard, and palms were to the portals on this side and that side, and eight steps were to it.
EZE 40:38 And its chambers and its doorways, and its pediments were at the second gate outflow,
EZE 40:39 so that they should slay in it the things for a sin offering, and the things for an ignorance offering.
EZE 40:40 And according to the back of the overflow of the whole burnt offerings, looking to the north, were two tables; and according to the back of the other, and to the columned porch of the gate were two tables according to the east.
EZE 40:41 Four tables were on this side, and four on that side, according to the back of the gate; upon them they slay the things offered for sacrifices; and over against the eight tables of the things offered for sacrifices.
EZE 40:42 And there were four tables of the whole burnt offerings having been made of dressed stones - a cubit and a half was the width, and two cubits and a half was the length, and a cubit was the height - upon them they placed the items with which they slew the whole burnt offerings there, and the things offered in sacrifice.
EZE 40:43 And they shall have a palm sized dressed stone waved border inside round about; and over the tables on top were roofs to cover up from the rain and the dryness.
EZE 40:44 And he brought me into the inner courtyard; and behold, there were two inner chambers in the inner courtyard; one according to the back of the gate towards the north bearing according to the south. And one according to the back of the gate towards the south looking towards the north.
EZE 40:45 And he said to me, This inner chamber looking towards the south is to the priests keeping the guard of the house.
EZE 40:46 And the inner chamber looking towards the north is to the priests keeping the guard of the altar; those are the sons of Zadok, the ones approaching of the sons of Levi towards the LORD to officiate to him.
EZE 40:47 And he measured the courtyard - the length was a hundred cubits, and the breadth was a hundred cubits, upon its four parts; and the altar was before the house.
EZE 40:48 And he brought me unto the columned porch of the house, and measured the portal of the columned porch - five cubits was the width on this side, and five cubits on that side; and the breadth of the doorway - fourteen cubits, and side-pieces of the door of the columned porch - three cubits on this side, and three cubits on that side.
EZE 40:49 And the length of the columned porch was twenty cubits, and the breadth was twelve cubits. And upon ten stairs they ascended unto it. And there were columns upon the columned porch, one from here this side and one from here that side.
EZE 41:1 And he brought me into the temple, and measured the columned porch - six cubits was the breadth of the columned porch on this side, and the width was six cubits on that side - the breadth of the tent.
EZE 41:2 And the breadth of the gatehouse was ten cubits; and the side-pieces of the gatehouse was five cubits on this side and five cubits on that side. And he measured its length - forty cubits; and the breadth was twenty cubits.
EZE 41:3 And he entered into the inner courtyard, and measured the portal of the doorway - two cubits; and the doorway was six cubits; and the side-pieces of the doorway was seven cubits on this side.
EZE 41:4 And he measured the length of the gates - twenty cubits; and the breadth was twenty cubits, in front of the temple. And he said to me, This is the holy of the holies.
EZE 41:5 And he measured the wall of the house - six cubits; and the breadth of the side was four cubits round about.
EZE 41:6 And the sides, side by side - thirty and of threes; and a space in the wall of the house at the sides round about, to be for the ones taking hold to see, so as to thoroughly not touch the walls of the house.
EZE 41:7 And the breadth of the higher of the sides was according to the appendage protruding out of the wall, to the higher one round about the house, so as to flatten out wider above; so that from out of the parts below they should ascend unto the upper rooms, and from out of the middles unto the third stories.
EZE 41:8 And the thraels of the house height round about was a space of the sides equal to the reed of six cubits intervals.
EZE 41:9 And the breadth of the wall of the side from outside was five cubits; and the spaces left over between the sides of the house.
EZE 41:10 And between the inner chambers was a breadth of twenty cubits, the circumference to the house round about.
EZE 41:11 And the doors of the inner chambers were unto the space left over, of the one door towards the north, and the one door towards the south; and the breadth of the place left over was five cubits width round about.
EZE 41:12 And the separate space in front of the left over space of the place towards the west was seventy cubits width of the wall separating; and five cubits was the breadth round about, and its length was ninety cubits.
EZE 41:13 And he measured over against the house, a hundred cubits length; and the spaces left over, and the places separating, and its walls was a hundred cubits length.
EZE 41:14 And the breadth in front of the temple, and the spaces left over opposite was a hundred cubits.
EZE 41:15 And he measured the length of the place separating in front of the spaces left over of the spaces from behind that house; and the spaces left over on this side and that side - a hundred cubits length; and the temple, and the corners, and the columned outer porch were decorated with fretwork.
EZE 41:16 And the windows were latticed narrow openings round about to the three stories, so as to look through; and the house and the places near were boarded round about, even from the floor unto the windows; and the windows unfolded thrice for looking through.
EZE 41:17 And unto the inner house and the outer, and upon the entire wall round about the inside and the outside,
EZE 41:18 were carved cherubim, and palms between cherub and cherub, with two faces to the cherub.
EZE 41:19 The face of a man towards the palm on this side, and the face of a lion towards the palm that side - all the house was carved round about.
EZE 41:20 From the floor unto fretwork were cherubim and palms having been carved.
EZE 41:21 And the holy place, and the temple, unfolded four-cornered. In front of the holy places was the vision as the appearance
EZE 41:22 of a wooden altar - three cubits was its height, and two cubits the length, and the breadth two cubits. And it had horns. And its base and its walls were wooden. And he said to me, This is the table before the face of the LORD.
EZE 41:23 And there were two doorways to the temple; and to the holy place two doorways to the two doorways to the turnings;
EZE 41:24 two doorways to the one, and two doorways to the second door.
EZE 41:25 And a carving was upon them, and upon the doorways of the temple - cherubim and palms according to the carving of the holy places; and there were seasoned timbers in front of the columned porch outside.
EZE 41:26 And there were hidden windows; and he measured on this side and that side unto the roofing of the columned porch; and the sides of the house were joined together.
EZE 42:1 And he brought me into the outer courtyard, according to the east, opposite of the gate of the one towards the north. And he brought me, and behold, there were five inner chambers being next to the space left over, and next to the place separating near the north,
EZE 42:2 a hundred cubits in length towards the north, and the breadth fifty cubits,
EZE 42:3 being diagramed in which manner as were the gates of the inner courtyard, and in which manner as were the peristyles of the outer courtyard, being set in rows facing three rank stoas.
EZE 42:4 And over against the inner chambers was a promenade ten cubits width by a hundred cubits length, for the inner way one cubit; and their doorways were towards the north.
EZE 42:5 And the upper promenades were likewise; for the peristyle protruded from out of it, from out of the peristyle beneath, and the interval; thus a peristyle and an interval and thus.
EZE 42:6 For they were triple, and had not columns as the columns of the inner chambers; on account of this they protruded from the ones beneath, and the ones in the middle from the ground.
EZE 42:7 And the doorway outside was in which manner the inner chambers of the courtyard outside was, the ones looking before the inner chambers towards the north - fifty cubits in length.
EZE 42:8 For the length of the inner chambers looking into the outer courtyard was fifty cubits; and these are the ones facing these others. The whole was a hundred cubits.
EZE 42:9 And the doors of these inner chambers of the entrance towards the east is to enter through them from the outer courtyard
EZE 42:10 according to the light opening of the one at the beginning of the promenade; and towards the south, and the face of the south according to the face of the space left over, and according to the face of the space separating, and the inner chambers.
EZE 42:11 And the promenade in front of them was according to the measures of the inner chambers towards the north; and according to the length of them, and according to the breadth of them, and according to all their exits, and according to their lights, and according to their doorways
EZE 42:12 of the inner chambers towards the south; according to the doorways at the beginning of the promenade upon a light interval of a reed according to the east of the entering them.
EZE 42:13 And he said to me, The inner chambers towards the north, and the inner chambers towards the south, being in front of the intervals, these are the inner chambers of the holy place, in which the priests approaching to the LORD eat there the holy things of the holies. And there they shall put the holy things of the holies, and the sacrifice offering, and the things for a sin offering, and the things for an ignorance offering; for the place is holy.
EZE 42:14 There shall not enter there except the priests, and they shall not come forth from out of the holy place into the outer courtyard, so that the ones leading forward might always be holy; so that they should not touch their uniform in which they officiate in them, for it is holy; and they shall put on other garments whenever they should touch the people.
EZE 42:15 And the measurement of the house was completed from inside. And he led me out according to the way of the gate looking according to the east. And he measured the plan of the house round about in arrangement.
EZE 42:16 And he stood at the back of the gate looking according to the east. And he measured five hundred, with the reed measure.
EZE 42:17 And he turned towards the north, and measured in front of the north side - five hundred cubits, with the reed measure.
EZE 42:18 And he turned towards the west, and he measured in front of the west side, five hundred cubits, with the reed measure.
EZE 42:19 And he turned towards the south, and he measured in front of the south, five hundred, with the reed measure.
EZE 42:20 The four parts of it - and he set in order their enclosure round about - five hundred towards the east, and five hundred cubits in breadth, to separate between the holy places, and between the area around the wall in arrangement of the house.
EZE 43:1 And he led me unto the gate towards the east, and he led me out.
EZE 43:2 And behold, glory of the God of Israel came according to the way towards the east. And there was a voice of the camp as the repeating voice of many. And the ground shone forth as brightness in the glory round about.
EZE 43:3 And the vision which I beheld was according to the vision which I beheld when I entered to anoint the city. And the vision of the chariot which I beheld was according to the vision which I beheld upon the river Chebar. And I fell upon my face.
EZE 43:4 And the glory of the LORD entered into the house according to the way of the gate looking according to the east.
EZE 43:5 And spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner courtyard; and behold, the house was full of glory of the LORD.
EZE 43:6 And I stood; and behold, there was a voice from out of the house speaking to me. And the man stood next to me.
EZE 43:7 And he said to me, You see, O son of man, the place of my throne, and the place of the track of my feet, in which my name shall encamp in the midst of the house of Israel into the eon, and the house of Israel shall not profane my holy name any longer, they and the ones leading them in their harlotry, and by the murders of the ones leading them in the midst of them;
EZE 43:8 in their putting my threshold among their thresholds, and my doorways next to their doorways, and appointed my wall as holding me and them together, and profaned my holy name by their lawless deeds which they did. And I obliterated them in my rage and by carnage.
EZE 43:9 And now, let the ones leading them from me thrust away their harlotry and the murders, and I will encamp in the midst of them into the eon!
EZE 43:10 And you, O son of man, show to the house of Israel the house, (and they shall abate from their sins,) and the vision of it, and the disposition of it,
EZE 43:11 (and they shall take their punishment for all of which they did.) And you shall diagram the house, and its preparation, and its exits, and its entrances, and its support. And all its orders, and all its laws, and all its rules you shall make known to them. And you shall diagram before them, and they shall keep all my ordinances, and all my orders, and shall do them.
EZE 43:12 And the diagram of the house upon the top of the mountain, all its limits round about the holy of holies - this is the rule of the house.
EZE 43:13 And these are the measures of the altar by cubit; of the cubit and a palm. The recess depth a cubit, and a cubit the breadth, and the molding upon the lip round about a span; and this is the height of the altar -
EZE 43:14 from the depth of the beginning of its hollow part to the atonement-seat, the one from beneath, is two cubits, and the breadth a cubit; and from the small atonement-seat to the great atonement-seat is four cubits, and the breadth is a cubit.
EZE 43:15 And the altar hearth was four cubits; and from the altar hearth and up above the horns, a cubit.
EZE 43:16 And the altar hearth was twelve cubits in length by twelve cubits, four-cornered upon the four parts of it.
EZE 43:17 And the atonement-seat was fourteen cubits in length by fourteen cubits in breadth upon its four parts; and its molding was encircling it round about - a half cubit; and its encircling base was a cubit round about; and its steps looked according to the east.
EZE 43:18 And he said to me, O son of man, thus says the LORD God; These are the orders of the altar in the day of its being made, to offer upon it whole burnt offerings, and to pour on it blood.
EZE 43:19 And you shall give to the priests, to the Levites, to the ones from out of the seed of Zadok, to the ones approaching to me, says the LORD God, to officiate to me - a calf from the oxen for a sin offering.
EZE 43:20 And they shall take from its blood, and shall place it upon four horns of the altar, and upon the four corners of the atonement-seat, and upon the base round about; and they shall cleanse and atone it.
EZE 43:21 And they shall take the calf for a sin offering, and he shall incinerate it in the place being separated of the house from outside of the holies.
EZE 43:22 And the second day you shall take a kid of the goats unblemished for a sin offering; and they shall atone the altar, in so far as they atoned with the calf.
EZE 43:23 And after completing the making an atonement, they shall bring an unblemished calf from out of the oxen, and an unblemished ram from out of the sheep.
EZE 43:24 And you shall offer them before the LORD, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and shall offer them as whole burnt offerings to the LORD.
EZE 43:25 Seven days you shall offer a kid for a sin offering each day, and a calf from out of the oxen, and a ram from out of the sheep - they shall offer them unblemished.
EZE 43:26 Seven days and they shall atone the altar and cleanse it; and they shall fill their hands.
EZE 43:27 And they shall complete the days, and it will be from the eighth day and beyond, and the priests shall offer upon the altar your whole burnt offerings, and the ones of your deliverance offering; and I will favorably receive you, says the LORD God.
EZE 44:1 And he returned me by the way of the outer gate of the holies looking according to the east; and this was locked.
EZE 44:2 And the LORD said to me; This gate having been locked will not be opened, and no one will go through it; for the LORD God of Israel will go through it, and it will be locked.
EZE 44:3 For the one leading, this one shall sit down in it to eat bread before the LORD. He shall enter by the way of the columned porch of the gate, and according to its way he shall go forth.
EZE 44:4 And he brought me according to the way of the gate towards the north over against the house. And I beheld, and behold, the house of the LORD was full of glory; and I fell upon my face.
EZE 44:5 And the LORD said to me, O son of man, arrange it upon your heart, and behold with your eyes, and hear with your ears all as much as I speak to you concerning all the orders of the house of the LORD, and all its laws! And arrange your heart for the entrance of the house according to all its exits in all the holy places!
EZE 44:6 And you shall say to the one rebelling, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord the LORD; Let it be enough to you from all your lawless deeds, O house of Israel,
EZE 44:7 for you to bring in sons of foreigners, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my holy places, and to profane them in your offering my breads, and fat, and blood, and violate my covenant in all your lawless deeds!
EZE 44:8 And you kept not the orders of my sanctuary. But you ordered to keep guards in my holy places for yourselves.
EZE 44:9 On account of this, thus says the LORD God; All sons of foreigners, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised in flesh, shall not enter into my holy places, of all foreigners in the midst of the house of Israel.
EZE 44:10 Only the Levites who hoped upon me in Israel wandering from me after their own ideas; even they shall bear their iniquities.
EZE 44:11 Yet they will be among my holy ones ministering as doorkeepers at the gates of the house, and ministering in the house. These shall slay the whole burnt offerings and the sacrifices for the people; and these shall stand before the people to minister to them.
EZE 44:12 Because they ministered to them before the face of their idols, and it became to the house of Israel for a punishment of iniquity; because of this I lifted my hand against them, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 44:13 And they shall bear their lawlessness, and they shall not approach unto me to officiate as priest to me, nor to lead forward to all the holy things of the holies. And they shall bear their dishonor in the delusion in which they wandered.
EZE 44:14 And I will order them to keep the watches of the house, for all its works, and for all as much as they should do.
EZE 44:15 The priests, the Levites, the sons of Zadok, the ones that kept watches of my holy things in the house of Israel wandering from me, these shall lead forward to me to minister to me, and they shall stand before my face to offer to me fat and blood, says the Lord the LORD.
EZE 44:16 These shall enter into my holy places, and these shall come forward to my table, to minister to me, and to guard my watches.
EZE 44:17 And they shall be, (in their entering into the gates of the inner courtyard,) putting on flaxen linen apparels; and they shall not put on wool in their ministering from the inner gate of the courtyard.
EZE 44:18 And they shall have flaxen linen turbans upon their heads, and shall have flaxen linen pants upon their loins; and they shall not gird with force.
EZE 44:19 And in their going forth into the outer courtyard to the people, they shall take off their apparels in which they ministered in them, and they shall put them in the inner chambers of the holies, and shall put on other apparels; and in no way shall they sanctify the people in their own apparels.
EZE 44:20 And their heads they shall not shave, and their hair they shall not make bare; by covering they shall cover their heads.
EZE 44:21 And in no way shall any priest drink wine in their entering into the inner courtyard.
EZE 44:22 And they shall not take a widow and one being cast out to themselves for a wife; but only a virgin from out of the seed of the house of Israel; but if there shall be a widow of a priest they shall take her.
EZE 44:23 And they shall teach my people between the holy and the profane; and they shall make known to them between unclean and clean.
EZE 44:24 And these shall attend over a judgment of blood to litigate my ordinances; they shall do justice, and shall judge my judgments. And they shall keep my laws and my orders in all my holiday feasts; and they shall sanctify my sabbaths.
EZE 44:25 And unto a dead soul of a man they shall not enter to defile themselves; but only unto a father, and unto a mother, and unto a son, and unto a daughter, and unto a brother, and unto his sister who became not a man's wife, shall he be defiled.
EZE 44:26 And after his being cleansed, he shall count out to himself seven days.
EZE 44:27 And whichever day they should enter into the inner courtyard to minister in the holy place, he shall bring an atonement, says the LORD God.
EZE 44:28 And it will be to them for an inheritance - I am an inheritance to them. And a possession shall not be given to them among the sons of Israel - I am their possession.
EZE 44:29 And the sacrifices, even the ones for a sin offering, and the ones for an ignorance offering, these they shall eat; and every separation offering in Israel will be theirs.
EZE 44:30 And the first-fruits of all, and the first-born of all, and all the cut-away portions from out of all your first-fruits shall be to the priests. And your first produce you shall give to the priest, to put a blessing upon your houses.
EZE 44:31 And all decaying flesh, and that taken by wild beasts from the birds and from the cattle the priests shall not eat.
EZE 45:1 And in your measuring out the land for inheritance, you shall separate the first-fruit to the LORD, a holy space of the land - five and twenty thousand in length, and the breadth ten thousand; it will be holy in all its limits round about.
EZE 45:2 And there shall be from out of this a sanctuary - five hundred by five hundred four-cornered round about; and fifty cubits shall be their space round about.
EZE 45:3 And from out of this measurement you shall measure a length five and twenty thousand, and the breadth ten thousand; and in it will be the sanctuary, the holy of the holies.
EZE 45:4 There shall be a portion being sanctified of the land to the priests ministering in the holy place; and it will be to the ones approaching to minister to the LORD. And it will be to them a place for houses being separated to their sanctification.
EZE 45:5 Twenty and five thousand in length, and a breadth of twenty thousand shall be to the Levites ministering in the house, to them for possession cities to dwell in.
EZE 45:6 And for the possession of the city you shall appoint five thousand for the breadth, and the length five and twenty thousand. In which manner the first-fruit of the holies is to all the house of Israel, so it shall be.
EZE 45:7 And a portion shall be to the one leading from out of this, and from this into the first-fruits of the holies for a possession of the city in front of the first-fruits of the holies, and in front of the possession of the city, the parts towards the west, and from the parts towards the west towards the east. And the length as one of the portions from the limits of the parts towards the west, unto the limits, the parts towards the east of the land.
EZE 45:8 And it will be to him for a possession in Israel. And the ones guiding my people shall not tyrannize any longer; but the house of Israel shall inherit the land according to their tribes.
EZE 45:9 Thus says the LORD God; Let it be enough to you, O ones guiding Israel! Let injustice and misery be removed, and observe equity and righteousness! Lift away the tyrannies from my people, says the LORD God!
EZE 45:10 There shall be to you a just yoke balance scale and a just measure and a just choenix measure for your measure.
EZE 45:11 And the choenix in like manner will be one to receive the tenth of the homer, a choenix and a tenth of the homer - the ephah shall be equal to the homer.
EZE 45:12 And the weight twenty oboli five shekels; twenty five shekels, and five and ten shekels let it be to you for the mina.
EZE 45:13 And this is the first-fruit which you shall separate - the sixth part of the measure of the homer of the wheat, and the sixth part of the ephah of the cor of the barley.
EZE 45:14 And the order concerning the olive oil - a cup of olive oil out of ten cups, for the ten cups are a homer.
EZE 45:15 And a sheep from the two hundred sheep as a cut-away portion of all the families of Israel; for sacrifices and whole burnt offerings, and for a sacrifice of deliverance offering, to atone for you, says the LORD God.
EZE 45:16 And all the people shall give this first-fruit to the one guiding Israel.
EZE 45:17 And the whole burnt offerings will be through the one guiding, and the sacrifices, and the libation-offerings in the holidays, and in the new moons, and in the sabbaths, and in all the holidays of the house of Israel - he shall offer the sacrifices for sin, and the sacrifice offering, and the whole burnt offerings, and the offerings of deliverance to atone for the house of Israel.
EZE 45:18 Thus says the LORD God; In the first month, day one of the month, you shall take a calf from out of the oxen, unblemished, to atone the holy place.
EZE 45:19 And the priest shall take of the blood, and shall put it upon the doorposts of the house, and upon the four corners of the temple, and upon the altar, and upon the doorposts of the gate of the inner courtyard.
EZE 45:20 And so shall you do in the seventh month, day one of the month, for each senseless and simple one - and you shall atone for the house.
EZE 45:21 And in the first month, the fourteenth of the month, will be to you the passover holiday - seven days you shall eat unleavened breads.
EZE 45:22 And the one guiding shall offer in that day for himself, and for all the people of the land, a calf for a sin offering.
EZE 45:23 And seven days of the holiday he shall offer whole burnt offerings to the LORD - seven calves, and seven rams, unblemished, daily seven days; and for a sin offering a kid of the goats daily, and a sacrifice offering.
EZE 45:24 And he shall prepare a cake for the calf and a cake for the ram, and a hin of olive oil for the cake.
EZE 45:25 And in the seventh month, the fifteenth of the month, during the holiday, he shall offer according to the same, seven days, and as the sacrifices for the sin offering, and as the whole burnt offerings, and as the gift offering, and as the olive oil.
EZE 46:1 Thus says the LORD God; The gate in the inner courtyard looking towards the east will be locked six days of the operative times; but on the day of the sabbaths it will be open, and on the day of the new moons it will be open.
EZE 46:2 And the one guiding shall enter according to the way of the columned porch of the gate outward, and shall stand at the thresholds of the gate, and the priests shall offer the things of his whole burnt offerings, and the things of his deliverance offering, and he shall do obeisance upon the threshold of the gate, and shall come forth. And the gate in no way shall be locked until evening.
EZE 46:3 And the people of the land shall do obeisance at the thresholds of that gate during the sabbaths, and during the new moons, before the LORD.
EZE 46:4 And the one guiding shall offer the whole burnt offerings to the LORD on the day of the sabbaths - six unblemished lambs and an unblemished ram;
EZE 46:5 and a gift cake offering for the ram, and for the lambs a sacrifice gift offering of his hand, and a hin of olive oil for the cake offering.
EZE 46:6 And in the day of the new moons, an unblemished calf, and six lambs, and a ram - they shall be unblemished;
EZE 46:7 and a cake offering for the ram, and a cake offering for the calf will be for a gift offering, and for the lambs, as whatever his hand should furnish, and a hin of olive oil for the cake.
EZE 46:8 And in the entering, the one guiding shall enter by the way of the columned porch of the gate, and by its way he shall come forth.
EZE 46:9 And whenever the people of the land should enter before the LORD during the holidays, the one entering by the way of the gate towards the north to do obeisance shall go forth by the way of the gate towards the south; and the one entering by the way of the gate towards the south shall go forth by the way of the gate towards the north. He shall not return by the gate by which he entered, but straightway from it he shall he go forth.
EZE 46:10 And the one guiding in the midst of them, in their entering, shall enter; and in their going forth, he shall come forth.
EZE 46:11 And in the holidays and in the festivals there shall be the gift cake offering to the calf, and a cake offering to the ram, and to the lambs as his hand should furnish, and of olive oil - a hin to the cake.
EZE 46:12 And if the one guiding should offer an acknowledgment offering of a whole burnt offering of deliverance to the LORD, then one should open to him the gate looking according to the east, and he should offer his whole burnt offering, and the things for his deliverance offering, in which manner he did on the day of the sabbaths. And he shall come forth and lock the doors after his going forth.
EZE 46:13 And he shall offer an unblemished lamb of a year old for a whole burnt offering to the LORD daily; morning by morning he shall prepare it.
EZE 46:14 And he shall prepare a gift offering for it, morning by morning, the sixth of a measure, and olive oil the third of a hin, to intermingle with the fine flour, as a gift offering to the LORD - a continual order.
EZE 46:15 You shall prepare the lamb, and the gift offering, and the olive oil; you shall offer morning by morning a whole burnt offering continually.
EZE 46:16 Thus says the LORD God; If the one guiding shall give a gift to one of his sons out of his inheritance, this shall be to his sons a possession by inheritance.
EZE 46:17 And if he should give a gift to one of his servants, then it will be his until the year of the release, and then he shall give back to the one guiding; except the inheritance of his sons, to them it will be for a possession.
EZE 46:18 And in no way shall the one guiding take from the inheritance of the people to tyrannize over them. From out of his own possession he shall give to inherit to his sons, so that my people should not be dispersed each from out of his possession.
EZE 46:19 And he brought me into the way according to the back of the gate, into the inner chamber of the holy places of the priests, the way looking towards the north. And behold, there was a place there having been separated.
EZE 46:20 And he said to me, This place is of which the priests boil there the sacrifices for an ignorance offering, and the sacrifices for a sin offering; and there they bake the gift offering thoroughly, so as to not bring them forth into the outer courtyard, to sanctify the people.
EZE 46:21 And he led me into the outer courtyard, and led me around upon the four parts of the courtyard. And behold, there was a courtyard according to each of the sides of the courtyard.
EZE 46:22 Upon the four sides of the courtyard were small courtyards, forty cubits in length, and a breadth of thirty cubits - one measure to the four.
EZE 46:23 And there were inner chambers round about them - to the four; and cooking places existed from beneath the inner chambers round about.
EZE 46:24 And he said to me, These are the houses of the cooks of which the ones ministering to the house shall boil there the things offered in sacrifice by the people.
EZE 47:1 And he brought me unto the thresholds of the house; and behold, water went forth from beneath the open space of the house according to the east. For the front of the house looked according to the east, and the water went down from the south of the house of the right, unto the south of the altar.
EZE 47:2 And he led me according to the way of the gate towards the north, and led me by the way outside to the gate of the courtyard looking according to the east; and behold, the water carried down from the right side.
EZE 47:3 As there was a man exiting right opposite, and a measure was in his hand, and he measured a thousand.
EZE 47:4 And he went through in the water, the water of release. And he measured a thousand, and went through the water unto the knees. And he measured a thousand, and went through the water unto his loin.
EZE 47:5 And he measured a thousand, and was not able to go through any more, for the water overflowed as the impetus of a rushing stream of which shall not be passed over.
EZE 47:6 And he said to me, Do you see, O son of man? And he led me, and returned me unto the edge of the river.
EZE 47:7 In my turning, and behold, upon the edge of the river were exceedingly many trees on this side and that side.
EZE 47:8 And he said to me, This water going forth unto Galilee towards the east, and goes down unto Arabia, and comes as far as unto the sea, unto the water of the outlet, and it shall heal the waters.
EZE 47:9 And it will be every life of the living creatures swarming upon all upon which ever the river should come there shall live. And there will be there exceedingly many fishes, for this water is come there, and it shall heal, and shall enliven. Everything upon which ever the river should come there shall live.
EZE 47:10 And fishermen shall stand there from En-gedi unto En-eglaim; it shall be for a refreshing of dragnets. It will be by itself, and its fishes will be as the fishes of the great sea, an exceedingly great multitude.
EZE 47:11 And in its outlet, and in its turning, and in its overflowing, in no way shall they heal - they have been given for salt.
EZE 47:12 And by the river shall ascend by its edge on this side and that side every eatable tree; in no way shall anything be old upon it, nor shall its fruit fail of the newness of it. It shall put forth first, for their waters are from out of the holy place. These waters go forth, and their fruit will be for food, and their ascending parts for health.
EZE 47:13 Thus says the LORD God; These are the borders you shall inherit of the land for the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel - an addition of a piece of measured land.
EZE 47:14 And you shall inherit it; each as his brother, in which I lifted my hand to give to their fathers; and this land shall fall to you by inheritance.
EZE 47:15 And these are the borders of the land towards the north - from the great sea, the way Hethlon of the entrance of Zedad;
EZE 47:16 Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, the places between the limits of Damascus and between the limits of Hamath, the courtyards of Hatticon, which are upon the limits of Hauran.
EZE 47:17 These are the borders from the sea, from the courtyard of Enan, the limits of Damascus, and the places towards the north, and the limits of Hamath the places towards the north.
EZE 47:18 And the places towards the east between Hauran, and between Damascus, and between Gilead, and between the land of Israel the Jordan separates unto the sea towards the east of Palm-grove; these are the borders towards the east.
EZE 47:19 And these are the borders towards the south and southwest from Teman, and Palm-grove unto the water of Mariboth Kadesh, reaching forth unto the great sea - this part is the south and southwest.
EZE 47:20 This part of the great sea defines the bounds unto before the entrance of Hamath, unto its entrance. These are the borders towards the west.
EZE 47:21 And you shall divide this land to them, to the tribes of Israel.
EZE 47:22 You shall cast it by lot to yourself, and to the foreigners sojourning in your midst, whomever engendered sons in your midst. And they will be yours as native-born among the sons of Israel - with you they shall eat by inheritance in the midst of the tribes of Israel.
EZE 47:23 And they will be in the tribe of converts in the converts with them. There you shall give an inheritance to them, says the LORD God.
EZE 48:1 And these are the names of the tribes from the top towards the north, according to the part of the descent of the splitting unto the entrance of Hamath, the courtyard of Enan, the border of Damascus to the north according to the part of Hamath's courtyard; and the parts towards the east will be theirs unto towards the west - for Dan, one portion.
EZE 48:2 And from the borders of Dan, towards the east unto the borders towards the west - Asher, one portion.
EZE 48:3 And from the borders of Asher, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Naphtali, one portion.
EZE 48:4 And from the borders of Naphtali, from the borders of the east, unto the borders towards the west - Manasseh, one portion.
EZE 48:5 And from the borders of Manasseh, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Ephraim, one portion.
EZE 48:6 And from the borders of Ephraim, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Reuben, one portion.
EZE 48:7 And from the borders of Reuben, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Judah, one portion.
EZE 48:8 And from the borders of Judah, from the borders towards the east, shall be the first-fruit of the offering, five and twenty thousand in breadth, and the length as one of the portions measured from the borders towards the east and unto the borders towards the west; and the holy place will be in the middle of them.
EZE 48:9 As for the first-fruit which they shall separate to the LORD, it shall be in length five and twenty thousand, and in breadth ten thousand.
EZE 48:10 Of these will be the first-fruit of the holy things for the priests towards the north, five and twenty thousand, and towards the west, ten thousand, and towards the east, ten thousand; and towards the south, twenty and five thousand; and the mountain of the holy places will be in the middle of it.
EZE 48:11 It shall be for the priests having been sanctified, the sons of Zadok, the ones keeping the watches of the house, who wandered not in the delusion of the sons of Israel, in which manner the Levites wandered.
EZE 48:12 And the first-fruit shall be to them having been given from out of the first-fruits of the land, a holy of holies from the borders of the Levites.
EZE 48:13 And to the Levites, shall be the parts next to the borders of the priests - in length, five and twenty thousand, and in breadth, ten thousand; the whole length shall be five and twenty thousand, and the breadth ten thousand.
EZE 48:14 Not shall a part be sold of it, nor measured out for sale, nor shall there be removed any of the first produce of the land, for it is holy to the LORD.
EZE 48:15 But concerning the five thousand extra in the width upon the five and twenty thousand, it will be an area around the wall to the city for the dwelling in, and for its space. And the city will be in the midst of it.
EZE 48:16 And these are its measurements from the borders towards the north - five hundred and four thousand, and from the borders towards the south - five hundred and four thousand, and from the borders towards the east - five hundred and four thousand, and from the borders towards the west - four thousand five hundred.
EZE 48:17 And there shall be a space to the city towards the north, two hundred and fifty, and towards the south, two hundred and fifty, and towards the east, two hundred and fifty, and towards the west two hundred and fifty.
EZE 48:18 And the extra of the length next to the first-fruits of the holy places will be ten thousand towards the east, and ten thousand towards the west; and they will be the first-fruits of the holy place; and its produce will be for breads to the ones working the city.
EZE 48:19 And the ones working the city shall work it from out of all the tribes of Israel.
EZE 48:20 The whole first-fruit shall be five and twenty thousand by five and twenty thousand, four-cornered. You shall separate there the first-fruit of the holy place, from the possession of the city.
EZE 48:21 And the extra shall be to the one guiding - on this side and on that side, from the first-fruits of the holy place. And for the possession of the city, there shall be a space unto five and twenty thousand in length, unto the borders of the ones towards the east, and towards the west, unto five and twenty thousand unto the borders towards the west, next to the portions of the one guiding; and the first-fruit of the holy places and the sanctuary of the house will be in the midst of it.
EZE 48:22 And by the borders of the Levites from the possession of the city in the midst of the one guiding it will be; between the borders of Judah and between the borders of Benjamin, and to the one guiding it will be.
EZE 48:23 And the extra of the tribes, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Benjamin, one portion.
EZE 48:24 And from the borders of the ones of Benjamin, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Simeon, one portion.
EZE 48:25 And from the borders of the ones of Simeon, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Issachar, one portion.
EZE 48:26 And from the borders of the ones of Issachar, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Zebulun, one portion.
EZE 48:27 And from the borders of the ones of Zebulun, from the borders towards the east, unto the borders towards the west - Gad, one portion.
EZE 48:28 And from the borders of the ones of Gad, from the borders towards the southwest; and his borders will be from Teman and the water of Mariboth Kadesh, an inheritance unto the great sea.
EZE 48:29 This is the land which you shall throw by lot to the tribes of Israel, and these are their divisions, says the LORD God.
EZE 48:30 And these are the outlets of the city, towards the north - four thousand and five hundred in measure.
EZE 48:31 And the gates of the city by the names of the tribes of Israel. Three gates towards the north; the gate of Reuben - one, and the gate of Judah - one, and the gate of Levi - one.
EZE 48:32 And the ones towards the east, four thousand and five hundred, and three gates; the gate of Joseph - one, and the gate of Benjamin - one, and the gate of Dan - one.
EZE 48:33 And the ones towards the south, four thousand and five hundred in measure, and three gates; the gate of Simeon - one, and the gate of Issachar - one, and the gate of Zebulun - one.
EZE 48:34 And the ones towards the west, four thousand and five hundred in measure, three gates; the gate of Gad - one, and the gate of Asher - one, and gate of Naphtali - one.
EZE 48:35 The circumference, ten and eight thousand. And the name of the city from which ever day it takes place, shall be its name.
DAN 1:1 In the third year of the kingdom of Jehoiakim king of Judah came Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon unto Jerusalem, and assaulted it.
DAN 1:2 And the LORD gave into his hand Jehoiakim king of Judah, and from part of the items of the house of the LORD. And he brought them into the land of Shinar for the house of his god. And the items he carried into the house of the treasury of his god.
DAN 1:3 And the king told Ashpenaz his chief eunuch to bring in some from the sons of the captivity of Israel, and from the seed of the royalty, and from the nobles;
DAN 1:4 young men to whom there is not a blemish upon them, and good to the appearance, and perceiving in all wisdom, and knowing knowledge, and considering in intelligence, and in whom there is strength in them to stand in the house before the king, to teach them letters and the language tongue. of Chaldeans.
DAN 1:5 And the king set in order to them the thing of the day, each day from the table of the king, and from the wine of his banquet; and to maintain them for three years, and after these things to stand them before the king.
DAN 1:6 And there existed among them from out of the sons of Judah, Daniel, and Hananiah, and Mishael, and Azariah.
DAN 1:7 And the chief eunuch added names to them; to Daniel - Belteshazzar, and to Hananiah - Shadrach, and to Mishael - Meshach, and to Azariah - Abed-nego.
DAN 1:8 And Daniel put unto his heart so as in no way he should be polluted in the table of the king, and in the wine of his banquet. And he petitioned the chief eunuch so that in no way he should be polluted.
DAN 1:9 And God granted Daniel for mercy and compassion before the chief eunuch.
DAN 1:10 And the chief eunuch said to Daniel, I fear my lord the king, the one arraying your food and your drink, lest at any time he should behold your faces looking downcast more than the boys of your contemporaries; and you should condemn my head to the king.
DAN 1:11 And Daniel said to Melzar, whom the chief eunuch placed over Daniel, and Hananiah, and Mishael, and Azariah.
DAN 1:12 Test now indeed your servants ten days; and let there be given to us from seeds of the earth! And we shall eat of it, and water we shall drink.
DAN 1:13 And let our shape be seen before you, and the shapes of the boys eating at the table of the king! And as how ever you should behold, do accordingly with your servants!
DAN 1:14 And he hearkened to them, and he tested them ten days.
DAN 1:15 And after the end of the ten days their shape looked good and strong in the flesh above all the boys eating at the table of the king.
DAN 1:16 And it came to pass Melzar did away with their supper and the wine for their drink, and gave to them food of the seeds.
DAN 1:17 And God gave to them understanding and intelligence in all academics, and wisdom. And Daniel perceived in every vision and in dreams.
DAN 1:18 And after the end of the days which the king told to bring them in, that the chief eunuch brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.
DAN 1:19 And the king spoke with them; and there was not found from out of all of them one likened to Daniel, and Hananiah, and Mishael, and Azariah; and they stood before the king.
DAN 1:20 And in every discourse of wisdom and higher knowledge, as much as the king sought from them, he found them ten-times more than all of the enchanters, and the magi being in all of his kingdom.
DAN 1:21 And Daniel existed until year one of Cyrus the king.
DAN 2:1 In the second year of the kingdom of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed a dream, and his spirit was startled, and his sleep went from him.
DAN 2:2 And the king said to call the enchanters, and the magi, and the administers of potions, and the Chaldeans, to announce to the king the things of his dreams. And they came and stood before the king.
DAN 2:3 And the king said to them, I dreamed, and it startled my spirit so as to know the dream.
DAN 2:4 And the Chaldeans spoke to the king in Syriac, O king, live into the eons! You tell the dream to your servants, and the interpretation of it we shall announce!
DAN 2:5 The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The matter departed from me. If then you should not make known to me the dream, and the interpretation of it, you will be for destruction, and your houses shall be torn in pieces.
DAN 2:6 But if the dream, and the interpretation of it, you should make known to me, gifts and favors without charge, and much honor you shall receive from me - except the dream and the interpretation of it report to me!
DAN 2:7 They answered a second time and said, Let the king tell the dream to his servants, and the interpretation of it we shall announce!
DAN 2:8 And the king answered and said, In truth I know that you buy back time, even in so far as you knew that the word departed from me.
DAN 2:9 If then the dream you should not announce to me, I know that a lying and corrupt word you agreed to speak before me until the time should go by - tell to me my dream, and I shall know that also its interpretation you shall announce to me!
DAN 2:10 Answered again the Chaldeans before the king, and they say, There is not a man upon the dry land who is able to make known the discourse of the king, in so far as every great king and ruler according to such matter asked not an enchanter, magus or Chaldean.
DAN 2:11 For the word which the king asks is heavy, and there is not another who shall announce it before the king, except the gods, which are not dwelling with any flesh.
DAN 2:12 Then the king in rage and much anger said to destroy all the wise ones of Babylon.
DAN 2:13 And the decree went forth that the wise ones be killed; and they sought Daniel and his friends to do away with.
DAN 2:14 Then Daniel answered counsel and opinion to Arioch the chief guard of the king, who came forth to do away with the wise ones of Babylon.
DAN 2:15 And he inquired of him, saying, O Ruler of the king, for what reason came forth the decree which is impudent from in front of the king? And Arioch made known the saying to Daniel.
DAN 2:16 And Daniel entered, and petitioned the king so as to give time to him, and the interpretation of it he should announce to the king.
DAN 2:17 And Daniel went into his house, and to Hananiah, and to Mishael, and to Azariah his friends, to make known the saying.
DAN 2:18 And they sought compassions from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that therefore Daniel and his friends should not be destroyed with the rest of the wise ones of Babylon.
DAN 2:19 Then the mystery was uncovered to Daniel in a night vision, and Daniel blessed the God of heaven.
DAN 2:20 And he said, May it be - the name of God being blessed from the eon and unto the eon; for the wisdom and the might are his.
DAN 2:21 And he changes seasons and times; he ordains kings, and changes; giving wisdom to the wise ones, and intelligence to the ones knowing understanding;
DAN 2:22 he uncovers deep and concealed things, knowing the things in the darkness, and the light is with him.
DAN 2:23 To you, O God of my fathers, I acknowledge, and praise, for wisdom and power you gave to me, and made known to me what we petitioned from you; and the matter of the king you made known to me.
DAN 2:24 And Daniel came to Arioch, whom the king appointed to destroy the wise ones of Babylon, and said to him, The wise ones of Babylon you should not destroy, but bring me before the king, and the interpretation I will announce to the king.
DAN 2:25 Then Arioch in haste brought Daniel before the king, and said to him, I found a man from out of the sons of the captivity of Judea, who will announce the interpretation to the king.
DAN 2:26 And the king answered and said to Daniel, of which the name was Belteshazzar, Are you able to announce to me the dream which I beheld, and the interpretation of it?
DAN 2:27 And Daniel answered before the king, and he said, The mystery which the king asks is not of wise ones, magi, enchanters, astrologers, to announce to the king.
DAN 2:28 But there is a God in heaven uncovering mysteries, and he made known to king Nebuchadnezzar what must take place at the last of the days. The dream of yours, and the visions of your head upon your bed, is this,
DAN 2:29 You, O king, your thoughts upon your bed ascended to what must take place after these things. And the one uncovering mysteries made known to you what must take place.
DAN 2:30 And to me there is not a wisdom being in me more than all the living, but this mystery was uncovered because of the interpretation to be made known to the king, that you should know the thoughts of your heart.
DAN 2:31 You, O king, viewed, and behold, one great image. That great image, and the aspect of it was overwhelming, standing before your face; and the vision of it was fearful.
DAN 2:32 An image of which the head was of pure gold, the hands and the breast and the arms of it silver, the belly and the thighs brass,
DAN 2:33 the shanks iron, the feet part somewhat of iron and part somewhat earthenware.
DAN 2:34 You viewed until a stone was shredded from out of the mountain without hands, and it struck the image upon the feet of iron and earthenware, and it thinned them out unto completion.
DAN 2:35 Then they were thinned out at once - the potsherd, the iron, the brass, the silver, the gold, and became as a cloud of dust from the threshing-floor at harvest; And the abundance of the wind lifted them away, and not a place was found for them. And the stone which struck the image became a great mountain, and it filled all the earth.
DAN 2:36 This is the dream; and the interpretation of it we will tell before the king.
DAN 2:37 You, O king, are king of kings; to whom the God of heaven gave a strong and fortified and honorable kingdom.
DAN 2:38 In every place where the sons of men dwell, both wild beasts of the field and birds of heaven he gave into your hand, and he placed you lord of all. You are the head of gold.
DAN 2:39 And after you shall arise another kingdom inferior of you, and a third kingdom which is the brass, which shall dominate over all the earth.
DAN 2:40 And a fourth kingdom which shall be strong as iron, in which manner iron makes fine and tames all things - so it shall be made fine and be tamed.
DAN 2:41 And that which you beheld of the feet and of the toes, part somewhat earthenware, and part somewhat of iron, will be a kingdom divided; and some from the root of iron will be in it, in which manner you beheld the iron being intermingled with the potsherd.
DAN 2:42 And the toes of the feet, part somewhat of iron and part somewhat earthenware, part of the kingdom will be somewhat strong, and some from it will be broken.
DAN 2:43 For you beheld the iron being intermingled with the potsherd; so they will be mixed together with the seed of men. But they will not be cleaving this one with this other one, as the iron intermingles not with the potsherd.
DAN 2:44 And in the days of those kings the God of heaven shall raise up a kingdom, which shall not be corrupted into the eons. And his kingdom shall not be left to another people, but it shall thin and winnow all the kingdoms, and this one shall rise up into the eons.
DAN 2:45 In which manner you beheld that from a mountain a stone was trimmed without hands, and it thinned the potsherd, the iron, the brass, the silver, the gold; the great God has made known to the king what must take place after these things. And the dream is true, and the interpretation of it trustworthy.
DAN 2:46 Then king Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face, and did obeisance to Daniel, and said to offer a libation to him of a gift offering and of a pleasant aroma offering.
DAN 2:47 And responding, the king said to Daniel, In truth, your God, he is God of gods, and lord of the kings, and uncovering mysteries, for you were able to uncover this mystery.
DAN 2:48 And the king magnified Daniel, and gave to him great and many gifts, and established him over all the places of Babylon, and ruler of satraps over all the wise ones of Babylon.
DAN 2:49 And Daniel asked of the king, and he placed over the works of the region of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach and Abed-nego. And Daniel was in the courtyard of the king.
DAN 3:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made a gold image. Its height was sixty cubits, its breadth was six cubits, and he stationed it in the plain of Dura, in the region of Babylon.
DAN 3:2 And he sent to gather together the supreme leaders, and the commandants, and the toparchs, leaders, and sovereigns, and the ones in authorities, and all the rulers of the regions, to come unto the holidays of dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king stationed.
DAN 3:3 And gathered together the toparchs, supreme leaders, commandants, leaders, sovereigns, great ones, the ones in authorities, and all the rulers of the regions, to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king stationed. And they stood before the image which Nebuchadnezzar stationed.
DAN 3:4 And the herald yelled in strength, To you it is spoken, O nations, peoples, tribes, languages,
DAN 3:5 in which ever hour you should hear a sound of a trumpet, also flute and harp, also sambuke and psaltery, and every harmony of sound of kinds of music, in falling, you shall do obeisance to the image of gold which Nebuchadnezzar the king stationed.
DAN 3:6 And who ever should not fall to do obeisance, in that same hour shall be put into the burning furnace of fire.
DAN 3:7 And it came to pass when the peoples heard the sound of the trumpet, even flute and harp, even sambuke and psaltery, and every kind of music, in falling, the peoples, tribes, languages, did obeisance to the image of gold which Nebuchadnezzar the king stationed.
DAN 3:8 Then Chaldean men came forward, and accused the Jews. And undertaking, they said to king Nebuchadnezzar,
DAN 3:9 O king, live into the eons!
DAN 3:10 You, O king, established a decree, that every man who ever should hear the sound of the trumpet, even flute and harp, even sambuke and psaltery, and harmony of sound, and every kind of music,
DAN 3:11 and should not fall to do obeisance to the image in gold, shall be put into the burning furnace of fire.
DAN 3:12 There are men Jews whom you placed over the works of the region of Babylon - Shadrach, Meshach, Abed-nego. These men obeyed not, O king, your decree, and your gods they serve not, and to the image of gold, which you stationed, they do not do obeisance.
DAN 3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in rage and anger said to lead in Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. And they led them before the king.
DAN 3:14 And Nebuchadnezzar responded and said to them, Is it truly, Shadrach, Meshach, Abed-nego, to my gods you serve not, and to the image in gold which I stationed you do not do obeisance?
DAN 3:15 Now then if it suffices readily that as whenever you should hear the sound of the trumpet, also flute and harp, also sambuke and psaltery, and harmony of sound, and every kind of music, in falling you should do obeisance to the image which I made - good. And if you should not do obeisance this hour, you shall be put into the burning furnace of fire; and who is God who shall rescue you from out of my hands?
DAN 3:16 And answered, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, saying to king Nebuchadnezzar, We have not a need concerning this matter to answer to you.
DAN 3:17 For our God in the heavens in whom we serve is able to rescue us from out of the burning furnace of fire; and from out of your hands, O king, he shall rescue us.
DAN 3:18 But if not, let it be made known to you, O king! that your gods we will not serve, and to the golden image which you stationed, we will not do obeisance.
DAN 3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled of rage, and the appearance of his face changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. And he said to burn the furnace seven-fold until which it should burn to the end.
DAN 3:20 And he told strong men of strength, shackling Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, to cast them into the burning furnace fire.
DAN 3:21 Then those men were shackled with their pantaloons, and tiaras, and leggings, and their garments. And they were thrown into the midst of the burning furnace of fire,
DAN 3:22 since the saying of the king excelled, and the furnace burned away over even extra seven-fold.
DAN 3:23 And these three - Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, fell into the midst of the burning furnace of fire, being shackled.
DAN 3:24 And Nebuchadnezzar heard their praising. And he wondered, and rose up in haste, and said to his great men, Was it not three men we threw into the midst of the fire being shackled? And they said to the king, Truly, O king.
DAN 3:25 And the king said, Here, I see four men being loose, and walking in the midst of the fire, and there is not corruption to them; and the vision of the fourth is likened to son of God.
DAN 3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came forward to the door of the burning furnace of fire, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, O servants of God the highest, go forth and come! And went forth Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, from out of the midst of the fire.
DAN 3:27 And the satraps were brought together, and the commandants, and the toparchs, and the mighty ones of the king. And they viewed the men, for the fire dominated not their body, and the hair of their head was not ablaze, and their pantaloons did not change, and the scent of fire was not on them.
DAN 3:28 And the king did obeisance before them to the LORD. And Nebuchadnezzar the king responded, and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, who sent his angel, and rescued his servants that relied upon him, and the word of the king they changed, and they delivered up their bodies unto fire, so that they should not serve nor do obeisance to any god, except their God.
DAN 3:29 And I display a decree, Every people, tribe, language, which ever should speak blasphemy against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, Abed-nego, shall be for destruction, and their houses for ravaging, in so far as there is not another God who shall be able to rescue thus.
DAN 3:30 Then the king prospered Shadrach, Meshach, Abed-nego, in the region of Babylon.
DAN 4:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king, to all the peoples, tribes, languages, dwelling in all the land; may peace be multiplied to you.
DAN 4:2 The signs and the miracles which God the highest did with me is pleasing before me to announce to you.
DAN 4:3 As of how great his signs, and as of how mighty his wonders. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his authority unto generation and generation.
DAN 4:4 I Nebuchadnezzar was prospering in my house, and thriving upon my throne.
DAN 4:5 I beheld a dream, and it threw me into fear, and I was disturbed upon my bed, and the visions of my head disturbed me.
DAN 4:6 And by me was made a decree to bring in before me all the wise ones of Babylon, so that the interpretation of the dream they should make known to me.
DAN 4:7 And the enchanters magi astrologers Chaldeans entered. And the dream I told before them; and the interpretation of it they did not make known to me,
DAN 4:8 until Daniel came, whose name was Belteshazzar, (according to the name of my God,) who has holy spirit of God within himself. And the dream I told before him, saying,
DAN 4:9 O Belteshazzar, ruler of the enchanters, whom knowing that holy spirit is in you, and concerning every mystery you are not powerless, hear the vision of my dream which I beheld, and the interpretation of it tell to me!
DAN 4:10 And the visions of my head I viewed upon my bed. And behold, a tree was in the midst of the earth, and the height of it was great.
DAN 4:11 The tree was magnified, and became strong, and its height came unto the heaven, and the extent of it into the ends of all the earth.
DAN 4:12 Its leaves were beautiful, and its fruit abundant, and a nourishment for all was in it. And underneath it encamped the wild beasts, and in its branches dwelt the birds of the heaven - from out of it all flesh was nourished.
DAN 4:13 I viewed in a vision of the night upon my bed, and behold, a sentinel, even a holy one from heaven came down.
DAN 4:14 And he spoke out loud in strength, and thus he said, Cut down the tree, and pluck off his branches, and shake off his leaves, and scatter his fruit! Let the wild beasts be shaken from beneath him, and the birds from his branches!
DAN 4:15 Only the development of his roots in the earth allow, and with a bond of iron and brass, and in the tender shoots of grass in the outside! And in the dew of the heaven he shall lay down, and his portion will be with the wild beasts in the grass of the ground.
DAN 4:16 His heart shall be changed from the ones of men, and the heart of a wild beast shall be given to him. And seven times shall change over him.
DAN 4:17 The word is through the interpretation of a sentinel, and the saying of holy ones the response; that the ones living should know that the LORD is the highest of the kingdom of men, and to whom ever it should seem good he shall give it, and he will raise up over it that which is in contempt of men.
DAN 4:18 This dream I beheld, I the king, Nebuchadnezzar. And you, O Belteshazzar, tell the interpretation! For all the wise ones of my kingdom are not able to manifest the interpretation of it to me. But you Daniel are able; for holy spirit of God is in you.
DAN 4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was rendered speechless for one hour, and his thoughts disturbed him. And the king answered, and said, Belteshazzar, the dream and interpretation you hasten not! Belteshazzar answered, and said, O lord, let be the dream to the ones detesting you, and the interpretation of it for your enemies!
DAN 4:20 The tree which you beheld being magnified and strengthened, of which the height came unto the heaven, and the extent of it into all the earth,
DAN 4:21 and its leaves flourishing, and its fruit abundant, and a nourishment to all by it, and underneath it dwelt the wild beasts, and in its branches encamped the birds of the heaven -
DAN 4:22 you are, O king. For you were magnified and strengthened; and your greatness was magnified, and came unto the heaven, and your dominion unto the ends of the earth.
DAN 4:23 And that the king beheld a sentinel, and a holy one coming down from the heaven, and he said, Pluck the tree, and destroy it; only the development of his roots in the earth allow! And with a bond of iron and brass, and in the tender shoots of grass in the outside, and in the dew of the heaven he shall lodge. And his portion will be with wild beasts until of which time seven seasons should be changed over him.
DAN 4:24 This is the interpretation of it, O king, and it is an interpretation of the highest which came upon my lord the king.
DAN 4:25 And you shall be banished from men, and your dwelling will be with wild beasts. And grass as an ox they shall feed you, and from the dew of the heaven you shall lodge, and seven seasons shall change over you, until of which you should know that the highest dominates the kingdom of men, and to whomever it seems good he will give it.
DAN 4:26 And whereas they said, Allow the development of the roots of the tree in the ground - your kingdom abides to you from of which ever time you should know the heavenly authority.
DAN 4:27 On account of this, O king, let my counsel please you, and ransom your sins by charities, and your iniquities by compassions on the needy! Perhaps it will be lenient to your transgressions.
DAN 4:28 All these things came upon Nebuchadnezzar the king.
DAN 4:29 After twelve months, upon the temple of his kingdom in Babylon while walking,
DAN 4:30 the king responded, and said, Is not this Babylon the great, which I built for a house of royalty by the might of my strength, for the honor of my glory?
DAN 4:31 With the word being in the mouth of the king, a voice from heaven came, To you it is spoken, O king Nebuchadnezzar; Your kingdom went from you.
DAN 4:32 And from men they shall banish you, and your dwelling shall be with wild beasts; and grass as an ox they shall feed you, and seven seasons shall change over you, until of which you shall know that the highest dominates the kingdom of men, and to whom ever it seems good to give it.
DAN 4:33 In this hour the word was completed upon Nebuchadnezzar. And he was banished from men, and ate grass as an ox, and from the dew of the heaven his body was dipped, until his hairs were enlarged as lions' hairs, and his fingernails as birds' claws.
DAN 4:34 And after the end of the days, I Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes unto heaven, and my senses returned unto me, and to the highest I blessed, and to the one living into the eons I praised and glorified; for his authority is an eternal authority, and his kingdom is unto generation and generation.
DAN 4:35 And all the ones inhabiting the earth are considered as nothing; and according to his will he does among the force of the of heaven, and among the one dwelling the earth. And there is not one who shall act against his hand, and says to him, What did you do?
DAN 4:36 At the same time my senses returned unto me; and I came into the honor of my kingdom; and my appearance returned to me, and my sovereigns and my great men sought me; and over my kingdom I was strengthened, and more extra greatness was added to me.
DAN 4:37 Now then I Nebuchadnezzar praise and greatly exalt and glorify the king of heaven, for all his works are true, and his paths equitable; and all the ones going in pride he is able to humble.
DAN 5:1 Belshazzar the king made a great supper for his great men - a thousand; and before the thousand was the wine.
DAN 5:2 And of drinking, Belshazzar spoke in the tasting of the wine, to bring the items of gold and of silver, which Nebuchadnezzar his father brought forth from out of the temple in Jerusalem. And they drank with them - the king, and his great men, and his concubines, and his mistresses.
DAN 5:3 And they brought the items of gold and of silver, which were brought forth from out of the temple of God in Jerusalem. And they drank with them - the king, and his great men, and his concubines, and his mistresses.
DAN 5:4 They drank wine, and they praised the gods of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of iron, and of wood, and of stones.
DAN 5:5 In the same hour came forth fingers of the hand of a man, and wrote over against the lamp upon the whitewashed portion of the wall of the house of the king. And the king viewed the knuckles of the hand writing.
DAN 5:6 Then the appearance of the king changed, and his thoughts disturbed him, and the bonding together of his loin parted, and his knees struck together.
DAN 5:7 And the king yelled in strength to bring the magi, and the Chaldeans, and the astrologers. And he said to the wise ones of Babylon, Who ever should read this writing, and should make known its interpretation to me, purple garments shall be put on him, and the necklace of gold upon his neck, and as third in my kingdom he shall rule.
DAN 5:8 And entering were all the wise ones of the king. And they were not able to read the writing, nor to make known the interpretation to the king.
DAN 5:9 And king Belshazzar was disturbed, and his appearance changed in him, and his great men were disturbed.
DAN 5:10 And the queen entered into the house of the banquet. And the queen responded and said, O king, live into the eon! Let your thoughts not disturb you, and let not your appearance be changed!
DAN 5:11 There is a man in your kingdom in which is spirit of the holy God. And in the days of your father, vigilance, and understanding, and wisdom as wisdom of God, was found in him. And king Nebuchadnezzar your father placed him ruler of enchanters of magi of Chaldeans and of astrologers,.
DAN 5:12 For extra spirit is in him, and intelligence, and understanding of interpreting dreams, and reporting things held, and untying things bonded together - it is Daniel, and the king put to him the name - Belteshazzar. Now then let him be called, and its interpretation he will announce to you!
DAN 5:13 Then Daniel was brought in before the king. And the king said to Daniel, Are you Daniel, the one from the sons of the captivity of Judea, of whom my father the king brought?
DAN 5:14 I heard concerning you, that spirit of God is in you, and vigilance and understanding and extra wisdom is found in you.
DAN 5:15 And now there entered before me the wise ones, magi, and astrologers, that they should read this writing, and the interpretation they should make known to me; but they were not able to announce to me.
DAN 5:16 And I heard concerning you, that you are able to interpret judgments. Now then, if you should be able to read this writing, and its interpretation to make known to me, purple garments shall be put on you, and the necklace of gold will be upon your neck, and as third in my kingdom you shall rule.
DAN 5:17 Then answered Daniel, and said before the king, Let your gifts be yours, and the present of your house give to another! But I shall read the writing to the king, and the interpretation of it I shall make known to you.
DAN 5:18 O king, God the highest gave the kingdom and the greatness and the honor and the glory, to Nebuchadnezzar your father.
DAN 5:19 And because of the greatness of which he gave to him, all the peoples, tribes, languages were trembling and fearing from before him. Whom he willed he did away with; and whom he willed he beat; and whom he willed he raised up high; and whom he willed he humbled.
DAN 5:20 And when his heart was raised up high, and his spirit was fortified to be prideful, he was brought down from the throne of the kingdom, and the honor was removed from him.
DAN 5:21 And from the men he was driven out, and his heart was given to be with the wild beasts, and with the wild donkeys among which he dwelt. And grass was fed him as an ox, and his body was dipped of the dew of the heaven; until of which he knew that God the highest dominated the kingdom of men, and to whom ever it seems good he gives it.
DAN 5:22 And you his son, O Belshazzar, humbled not your heart in front of God, of which all these things you knew.
DAN 5:23 And against the LORD God of heaven you were haughty; and the items of his house they brought before you, and you, and your great men, and your concubines, and your mistresses, drank wine in them; and the gods of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of iron, and of wood, and of stones, (the ones they see not, and hear not, and know not,) you praised. And the God of whom your breath is in his hand, and all your ways - him you glorified not.
DAN 5:24 On account of this, the knuckle of a hand was sent from his presence; and this writing he arranged.
DAN 5:25 And this is the writing being arranged - Mene, Tekel, Peres.
DAN 5:26 This is the interpretation of the saying, Mene - God measured your kingdom, and finished it.
DAN 5:27 Tekel - it was set in the yoke balance scale, and found lacking.
DAN 5:28 Peres - your kingdom was divided, and was given to the Medes and Persians.
DAN 5:29 And Belshazzar spoke, and they put on Daniel purple, and the gold necklace they put around his neck, and proclaimed concerning him, for him to be third ruler in the kingdom.
DAN 5:30 In the same night Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans was done away with.
DAN 5:31 And Darius the Mede took the kingdom, being sixty two years old.
DAN 6:1 And it was pleasing before Darius, and he placed over the kingdom a hundred twenty satraps, for them to be in his entire kingdom.
DAN 6:2 And above them three tacticians, whom Daniel was one of them, for the satraps to render a reckoning to them, so that the king should not be troubled.
DAN 6:3 And Daniel was over them, for extra spirit was in him; and the king placed him over his entire kingdom.
DAN 6:4 And the tacticians and the satraps sought an excuse to find something against Daniel; and any excuse, and transgression, and error they did not find against him, for he was trustworthy.
DAN 6:5 And the tacticians said, We did not find against Daniel an excuse, unless it be in the laws of his God.
DAN 6:6 Then the tacticians, and the satraps stood beside the king, and said to him, O king Darius, live into the eons!
DAN 6:7 All the ones over your kingdom took counsel (commandants, and satraps, the supreme leaders, and toparchs) to establish a royal position, and to strengthen an enactment, so that whoever should ask a request from any god or man, for thirty days, except from you, O king, shall be put into the pit of the lions.
DAN 6:8 Now then, O king, establish the enactment, and display in writing how the decree of the Persians and Medes should not be changed!
DAN 6:9 Then king Darius gave orders to write the decree.
DAN 6:10 And when Daniel knew that the decree was arranged, he went into his house; and the windows were open to him in his upper rooms before Jerusalem. And three times of the day he was bending upon his knees, and praying, and making acknowledgment before his God, as he was doing before.
DAN 6:11 Then those men closely watched, and found Daniel petitioning and beseeching his God.
DAN 6:12 And coming forward, they say to the king, O king, did you not order an enactment, so that every man who ever should ask from any God or man a request unto thirty days, except from you, O king, shall be put into the pit of lions? And the king said, The word is true, and the decree of the Medes and Persians shall not pass away.
DAN 6:13 Then they responded and spoke before the king, saying, Daniel, the one from the sons of the captivity of Judea, was not submitted to your decree; and three times of the day he asks of his God the requests of his.
DAN 6:14 Then the king, as he heard the saying, fretted much over him. And concerning Daniel he struggled to rescue him; and until evening he was struggling to rescue him.
DAN 6:15 Then those men say to the king, Know, O king, that the decree of the Medes and Persians, every enactment and position which the king shall establish, must not be altered!
DAN 6:16 Then the king spoke, and they led Daniel, and they put him into the pit of the lions. But the king said to Daniel, Your God in whom you serve continually, he will rescue you.
DAN 6:17 And they brought one stone, and placed it upon the mouth of the pit, and the king set seal with his ring, and with the ring of his great men, so that the thing should not be changed with regard to Daniel.
DAN 6:18 And the king went forth unto his house, and went to bed supperless; and food was not carried in to him, and sleep left from him.
DAN 6:19 Then the king rose up in the morning at the light, and in haste came unto the pit of the lions.
DAN 6:20 And at his approaching to the pit he yelled to Daniel a strong voice, Daniel, O servant of the living God, your God in whom you serve continually, was he able to rescue you from out of the mouth of the lions?
DAN 6:21 And Daniel said to the king, O king, live into the eons!
DAN 6:22 My God sent his angel, and obstructed the mouths of the lions, and they did not lay me waste; for before him uprightness was found in me; and even before you, O king, I did not commit a transgression.
DAN 6:23 Then the king felt much good over him, and spoke for Daniel to be brought from out of the pit. And they bore Daniel from out of the pit, and all hurt was not found on him, for he trusted in his God.
DAN 6:24 And the king spoke, and they led the men accusing Daniel, and put them into the pit of the lions, and their sons, and their wives. And they came not unto the floor of the pit before the lions dominated them, and made fine all of their bones.
DAN 6:25 Then Darius the king wrote to all the peoples, tribes, and languages, living in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.
DAN 6:26 From my presence I made a decree for the one in every rule of my kingdom to be trembling and fearing from the face of the God of Daniel. For he is the living God, and abiding into the eons, and his kingdom shall not be destroyed, and his dominion is unto the end.
DAN 6:27 He takes hold of and rescues, and produces signs and miracles in the heaven and upon the earth, who rescued Daniel from out of the mouth of the lions.
DAN 6:28 And Daniel prospered during the kingdom of Darius, and during the kingdom of Cyrus the Persian.
DAN 7:1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of the Chaldeans, Daniel beheld a dream, and visions of his head upon his bed. And he wrote his dream, and the total sum of the words he said,
DAN 7:2 I Daniel viewed in my vision of the night, and behold, the four winds of the heaven struck up in the great sea.
DAN 7:3 And four great wild beasts ascended from out of the sea, differing from one another.
DAN 7:4 The first was as a lioness, and her wings were of an eagle. I viewed until of which her wings were plucked, and she was lifted away from the earth, and upon the feet of a man she stood, and the heart of a man was given to her.
DAN 7:5 And behold, a second wild beast likened to a bear, and on one part she stood, and three ribs were in her mouth in between her teeth. And so they said to her, Rise up, eat much flesh!
DAN 7:6 After it I viewed, and behold, another wild beast as a leopard; and to her were four wings of a bird above her; and four heads were to the wild beast; and authority was given to her.
DAN 7:7 After this I viewed, and behold a fourth wild beast, fearful and utterly astonishing, and extremely great; and its teeth iron, strong, eating, and making fine, and the rest with its feet it trampled. And it was extremely diverse from all the wild beasts before it; and ten horns were to it.
DAN 7:8 I paid attention to its horns, and behold, another small horn ascended in the midst of them, and three horns prior to it were rooted out from in front of it. And behold, eyes as eyes of a man were in this horn, and a mouth speaking great things.
DAN 7:9 I viewed until when thrones were set, and the old one of days sat down. And his garment was as snow - white, and the hair of his head was as pure wool. His throne a flame of fire, his wheels as fire blazing.
DAN 7:10 A river of fire drew exiting before him. A thousand thousands ministering to him, and ten thousand ten thousands were present before him. A judgment seat was set, and books were opened.
DAN 7:11 I viewed then because of a voice of the great words which that horn spoke, until the wild beast was done away with, and destroyed, and its body was given unto burning fire.
DAN 7:12 And the rule of the rest of the wild beasts was changed over, and a duration of life was given to them until a time and a season.
DAN 7:13 I viewed in a vision of the night, and behold, with the clouds of the heaven, and one as son of man was coming. And he came unto the old one of days, and was brought before him.
DAN 7:14 And to him was given the rule, and the honor, and the kingdom; and all the peoples, tribes, and languages shall serve to him. His authority is an eternal authority, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom shall not be destroyed.
DAN 7:15 My spirit shuddered, I Daniel, in my manner, and the visions of my head disturbed me.
DAN 7:16 And I came forward to one of the ones standing, and the exactness I sought of him to learn concerning all these things. And he spoke to me the exactness, and the interpretation of the words he made known to me.
DAN 7:17 These four great wild beasts - four kingdoms shall rise up upon the earth,
DAN 7:18 The ones shall be lifted away, and holy ones of the highest shall take to themselves the kingdom; and they shall hold it unto the eon, and unto the eon of the eons.
DAN 7:19 And I sought exactly concerning the fourth wild beast, that was diverse from every wild beast, extremely fearsome, its teeth of iron, and its fingernails of brass; devouring, and making fine, and it trampled upon the rest with its feet.
DAN 7:20 And concerning the horns of it, of the ten in his head, and of the other ascending and shaking off the former three - that horn in which the eyes and mouth spoke great things, and the sight of it was greater than the rest,
DAN 7:21 I viewed, and that horn made war with the holy ones, and prevailed against them,
DAN 7:22 until of which the old one of days came, and gave judgment to holy ones of the highest; and the time came, and the holy ones took control of the kingdom.
DAN 7:23 And he said, The fourth wild beast will be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which shall excel all the kingdoms, and shall devour all the earth, and shall trample upon it and cut it in pieces.
DAN 7:24 And the ten horns of it are ten kings, and they shall rise up. And after them shall rise up another who shall overwhelm all the ones prior, and three kings he shall humble.
DAN 7:25 And words against the highest he shall speak, and the holy ones of the highest he shall mislead, and shall be of the opinion to change times and law. And it shall be granted in his hand until a time and times and half a time.
DAN 7:26 And the judgment seat he shall set, and the rule shall change over to remove it from view, and to destroy it until the end.
DAN 7:27 And the kingdom, and the authority, and the greatness of the kings underneath all the heaven, was given to holy ones of the highest. And his kingdom is an eternal kingdom, and all the sovereignties shall serve and obey him.
DAN 7:28 Unto here is the end of the matter. I Daniel, very much the thoughts of mine disturbed me, and my appearance changed upon me; and the matter I preserved in my heart.
DAN 8:1 In the third year of the kingdom of Belshazzar the king, a vision appeared to me, I Daniel, after the appearing to me at the beginning.
DAN 8:2 And I was in Sushan in the palace, which is in the region of Elam; and I saw in a vision, and I was upon the Ulai.
DAN 8:3 And I lifted my eyes, and looked. And behold, one ram standing before the Ubal; and there was to him horns, and the horns were high; and the one was higher than the other, and the high one ascended up last.
DAN 8:4 And I beheld the ram butting towards the west, and the north, and the south; and all the wild beasts shall not stand before him, and there was not one rescuing from out of his hand; and he did according to his will, and was magnified.
DAN 8:5 And I was perceiving, and behold, a he-goat of the goats came from the southwest upon the face of all the earth, and was not touching the earth. And to the he-goat was a horn which may be viewed between his eyes.
DAN 8:6 And he came unto the ram having the horns, which I beheld standing before the Ubal, and ran against him with the thrust of his strength.
DAN 8:7 And I beheld him anticipating unto the ram, and he was furiously enraged against him. And he hit the ram, and broke both of his horns. And there was not strength to the ram to stand before him. And he tossed him upon the ground, and trampled upon him. And there was not one rescuing the ram from out of his hand.
DAN 8:8 And the he-goat of the goats was magnified even unto exceedingly, and in his being strong, his great horn was broken. And there ascended another four horns underneath him unto the four winds of the heaven.
DAN 8:9 And from out of the one of them came forth one strong horn, and was magnified extremely towards the south, and towards the east, and towards the setting of the sun.
DAN 8:10 And it was magnified unto the force of the heaven; and it fell upon the earth from the force of the of heaven, and from the stars, and trampled upon them.
DAN 8:11 And unto the commander-in-chief he was magnified, and through him the sacrifice was disturbed, and the holy place shall be made desolate.
DAN 8:12 And a sin offering was given for the sacrifice, and righteousness was tossed onto the ground; and he performed and was prospered.
DAN 8:13 And I heard one holy one speaking, and one holy one said to the Phelmouni speaking, For how long shall the vision stand, the taking away the sacrifice, and the granting the sin of desolation, and the holy place and the force shall be trampled upon?
DAN 8:14 And he said to him, Unto evening and morning two thousand three hundred days, and the holy place shall be cleansed.
DAN 8:15 And it came to pass in my beholding, I Daniel, the vision, and I sought understanding, and behold, there stood before me as an appearance of a man.
DAN 8:16 And I heard the voice of a man in the midst of the Ulai. And he called, and said, Gabriel, bring understanding the vision for that one!
DAN 8:17 And he came and stood next to my position. And in his coming I was distraught, and I fell upon my face. And he said to me, Take notice, O son of man! For the vision is still for end time.
DAN 8:18 And in his speaking with me, I fell upon my face unto the earth. And he touched me, and stood me upon my feet.
DAN 8:19 And he said, Behold, I make known to you the things being at the last of the wrath; for it is yet for end of time.
DAN 8:20 The ram which you beheld having the horns, is the king of the Medes and Persians.
DAN 8:21 And the he-goat of the goats is the king of the Greeks. And the great horn that was in between his eyes, he is the foremost king.
DAN 8:22 And of the one being broken, of which four horns stood underneath - four kings from out of his nation shall rise up, but not in his strength.
DAN 8:23 And at the last of their kingdom, being full of the sins, a king shall rise up with an impudent face, and perceiving riddles.
DAN 8:24 And his strength is fortified, and not by his strength. And wonderfully he shall corrupt, and shall prosper, and shall perform, and shall corrupt strong ones, and a holy people.
DAN 8:25 And the yoke of the collar shall prosper. Treachery is in his hand, and in his heart he shall magnify himself. And by treachery he shall corrupt many; and for a destruction of many he shall establish himself; and as eggs in a hand he shall break.
DAN 8:26 And the vision of the evening and of the morning of the thing being spoken - it is true. And you, you set a seal upon the vision, for it is for many days!
DAN 8:27 And I Daniel went to bed, and I was infirm for days; and I rose up, and did the works of the king; and I wondered at the vision, and there was not one perceiving.
DAN 9:1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, who reigned over the kingdom of Chaldeans;
DAN 9:2 in year one of his kingdom, I Daniel perceived in the books the number of the years of which the word of the LORD became to Jeremiah the prophet, for a fulfillment of the desolation of Jerusalem - seventy years.
DAN 9:3 And I put my face towards the LORD God, to inquire by prayer and supplication, in fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes.
DAN 9:4 And I prayed to the LORD my God, and made acknowledgment, and said, O LORD, the great and wonderful God, the one keeping your covenant and mercy to the ones loving you, and to the ones keeping your commandments -
DAN 9:5 we sinned, we did wrong, we were impious, and we left, and turned aside from your commandments and from your judgments.
DAN 9:6 And we listened not to your servants the prophets, the ones speaking in your name to our kings, and our rulers, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
DAN 9:7 To you, O LORD, is righteousness, and to us the shame of face, as this day - to the man of Judah, and to the ones dwelling Jerusalem, and to all Israel, to the ones near, and to the ones far off in all the earth, of which you dispersed them there, for their rebellion in which they annulled covenant with you, O LORD.
DAN 9:8 To us shame of face, and to our kings, and to our rulers, and to our fathers who sinned against you.
DAN 9:9 To the LORD our God are the compassions and the atonements, for we separated from the LORD.
DAN 9:10 And we hearkened not to the voice of the LORD our God, to go by his laws, which he executed before our face by the hands of his servants the prophets.
DAN 9:11 And all Israel violated your law, and turned aside to not hearken to your voice; and there came upon us the curse, and the oath having been written in the law of Moses the servant of God, for we sinned against him.
DAN 9:12 And he established his words, which he spoke against us, and against our judges judging us, for him to bring upon us great evils, such as have not taken place underneath all of the heaven, according to the things taking place in Jerusalem.
DAN 9:13 As was written in the law of Moses, all these evils came upon us. And we besought not the face of the LORD our God, to turn from our iniquities, and to perceive in all truth.
DAN 9:14 And the LORD our God was vigilant against the evil, and brought them upon us. For the LORD our God is just in all his doing which he did. And we hearkened not to his voice.
DAN 9:15 And now, O LORD our God, who led your people from out of the land of Egypt by a fortified hand, and you made for yourself a name, as it is this day - we sinned, we acted lawlessly, we transgressed.
DAN 9:16 O LORD, in all your charity, turn indeed your rage and your anger from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain! For we sinned in our iniquities, and of the ones of our fathers. Jerusalem and your people became for scorn among all the ones surrounding us.
DAN 9:17 And now, hearken O LORD our God, of the prayer of your servant and his supplications! And let your face appear upon your sanctified place, the deserted one, because of you, O LORD!
DAN 9:18 Lean, O my God, your ear, and hearken! Open your eyes, and behold our extinction, and the one of your city upon which your name is called upon it! For not upon our righteousness we toss our compassion before you, but upon your great compassions, O LORD.
DAN 9:19 Hearken, O LORD! Atone, O LORD! Take heed, O LORD! Act, and do not delay for your sake, O LORD my God! For your name is called upon your city, and upon your people.
DAN 9:20 And yet during my speaking, and praying, and declaring openly my sins, and the sins of my people Israel, and tossing my desire for mercy before the LORD my God concerning the holy mountain of my God,
DAN 9:21 that yet during my speaking in the prayer, that behold, the man Gabriel appeared, whom I beheld in the vision at the beginning flying. And he touched me about the hour of the evening sacrifice.
DAN 9:22 And he brought understanding to me, and spoke with me, and said, O Daniel, now I came forth to instruct you for understanding.
DAN 9:23 In the beginning of your supplication the word went forth, and I came to announce to you; for you are a man desired. And now reflect in the matter, and perceive in the apparition!
DAN 9:24 Seventy periods of seven were rendered concise upon your people and upon the holy city, to finish off sin, and to set a seal upon sins, and to wipe out the lawless deeds, and to atone for iniquities, and to bring eternal righteousness, and to set a seal upon vision and prophecy, and to anoint the holy of holies.
DAN 9:25 And you shall know and perceive, from the delivery of the word to respond and to build Jerusalem until the anointed one Christ. leading - seven periods of seven, and sixty-two periods of seven. Again the square and wall shall be built in straits of the times.
DAN 9:26 And after the sixty-two periods of seven, the anointing shall be utterly destroyed, and judgment is not in him. And the city, and the holy place he shall corrupt with the one taking the lead, the one coming, and they shall be cut off as in a flood, and he shall order in extinctions until the end of war being terminated.
DAN 9:27 And he shall strengthen covenant with many for one period of sevens; and in the half of the period of seven shall be lifted away sacrifice and libation offering, and upon the temple an abomination of the desolations will be, and until the completion of time, completion shall be given unto the desolation.
DAN 10:1 In the third year of Cyrus, king of the Persians, the word was uncovered to Daniel, (of whom the name was called Belteshazzar;) and the word is true, and great ability and understanding was given to him in the apparition.
DAN 10:2 In those days, I Daniel was mourning three periods of seven of days.
DAN 10:3 Of desirable bread I ate not, and meat and wine did not go into my mouth, and with an anointing I annointed not, until the fullness of the three period of sevens of days.
DAN 10:4 On the twentieth and fourth day of the first month, even I was next to the great river - it is the Tigris.
DAN 10:5 And I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, a man, one being clothed with linen clothes, and his loin being girded in gold of Uphaz.
DAN 10:6 And his body was as Tharsis stone, and his face as a sight of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his legs were as the sight of brass shining, and the sound of his words as a sound of a multitude.
DAN 10:7 And I Daniel alone beheld the apparition. And the men with me, beheld not the apparition; but a great change of state fell upon them, and they fled in fear.
DAN 10:8 And I was left behind alone, and beheld this great apparition, and there was not left in me strength; and my glory converted into corruption, and I held not strength.
DAN 10:9 And I heard the voice of his words. And in my hearing the sound of his discourses, I was being vexed, and my face was upon the ground.
DAN 10:10 And behold, a hand was touching me, and raised me upon my knees and palms of my hands.
DAN 10:11 And he said to me, Daniel, man desired, perceive by the words which I speak to you, and stand at your position! For now I am sent to you. And in his speaking to me this word, I rose up trembling.
DAN 10:12 And he said to me, Fear not Daniel! For from the first day of which you gave your heart to perceive, and to afflict yourself before the LORD your God, your words were heard, and I came because of your words.
DAN 10:13 And the ruler of the kingdom of the Persians stood right opposite me twenty days and one day. And behold, Michael, one of the rulers of the ones foremost, came to help me; and I left him there with the ruler of the kingdom of the Persians.
DAN 10:14 And I came to bring understanding to you as much as shall meet your people in last of the days. For the vision is still for days.
DAN 10:15 And in his speaking with me according to these words, I put my face unto the ground, and was vexed.
DAN 10:16 And behold, as a likeness of a son of man touched my lips. And I opened my mouth, and I spoke, and said to the one standing before me, O lord, at the apparition of you my within turned in me, and I had not strength.
DAN 10:17 And how shall your servant be able, O lord, to speak after this my lord? And I, from the present shall not stand with strength in me, and there is not breath left in me.
DAN 10:18 And proceeded and touched me as it were a vision of a man, and he strengthened me.
DAN 10:19 And he said to me, Fear not, man desired! Peace to you, be manly and strong! And in his speaking with me, I strengthened, and I said, Speak, my lord! For you strengthened me.
DAN 10:20 And he said, Do you know why I came to you? And now, I shall return to wage war with the ruler of the Persians. And I coming forth, and the ruler of the Greeks came.
DAN 10:21 But I will announce to you the arranging in the writing of truth. And there is not one holding with me concerning these things, except Michael your ruler.
DAN 11:1 And I in the first year of Cyrus stood for might and strength.
DAN 11:2 And now I shall announce truth to you, Behold, still three kings shall arise in Persia; and the fourth shall be rich in great riches, more than all. And after his prevailing by his riches, he shall rise up against all the kingdoms of the Greeks.
DAN 11:3 And a mighty king shall rise up, and shall lord over a great dominion, and shall do according to his will.
DAN 11:4 And as whenever his kingdom should stand, it shall be broken, and shall be divided into the four winds of the heaven; and not unto his latter end, nor according to his dominion which he lorded over. For his kingdom was plucked up, and to others outside of these it shall be given.
DAN 11:5 And the king of the south grew in strength; and one of his rulers shall grow in strength over him, and shall lord over a great dominion by his authority.
DAN 11:6 And after his years they shall be mixed together. And the daughter of the king of the south shall enter in to the king of the north to make treaties with him, and she shall not hold strength of arm; and his seed shall not stand, and she shall be delivered up, and the ones bringing her, and the young woman, and the one strengthening her in the times.
DAN 11:7 And one shall rise up from out of the flower of her root unto his preparation; and he shall come against the force, and shall enter unto the supporters of the king of the north, and shall deal with them, and shall prevail.
DAN 11:8 And indeed their gods with their molten images, and every desirable item of theirs of silver and of gold, with the captivity, he shall bring into Egypt. And he shall stand over the king of the north.
DAN 11:9 And he shall enter into the kingdom of the king of the south, and shall return unto his land.
DAN 11:10 And his sons shall gather a multitude of many forces. And one coming shall come, even inundating, and shall go by. And he shall settle, and shall grapple together unto his strength.
DAN 11:11 And the king of the south shall be wild, and shall come forth and wage war with the king of the north. And he shall establish a great multitude; but there shall be delivered up a multitude in his hand.
DAN 11:12 And he shall take the multitude, and his heart shall be exalted; and he shall throw down myriads, and shall not prevail.
DAN 11:13 And the king of the north shall return, and shall lead a great multitude more than the former. And in the end of the times he shall come upon an entrance in great power, and in much substance.
DAN 11:14 And in those times many shall rise up against the king of the south. And the sons of the pestilent ones of your people shall be lifted up to establish the vision; and they shall weaken.
DAN 11:15 And the king of the north shall enter, and shall discharge a mound, and shall seize fortified cities. And the arms of the king of the south shall not stand. and his chosen ones shall rise up, and there will not be strength to stand.
DAN 11:16 And the one entering shall do to him according to his will, and there is not one standing against his face. And he shall stand in the land of glory, and it shall be finished off entirely by his hand.
DAN 11:17 And he shall arrange his face to enter in the strength of all his kingdom, and all upright with him - thus he shall do. And the daughter of women he will give to him to corrupt her. And in no way shall she remain, and she will not be to him.
DAN 11:18 And he shall turn his face unto the islands, and shall seize many. And he will cause rulers to cease their scorning, only his scorning shall return to him.
DAN 11:19 And he shall turn his face unto the strength of his land. And he shall weaken, and shall fall, and shall not be found.
DAN 11:20 And shall rise up from out of his root a plant of a kingdom, unto his preparation, casting aside, exacting glory of the kingdom. And in those days he shall be broken, and not in facesfacing off., nor in war.
DAN 11:21 One shall stand upon his preparation, who was treated with contempt, and gave not unto him glory of the kingdom. And he shall come in prosperity, and shall prevail over a kingdom by a slip.
DAN 11:22 And the arms of the one inundating shall be flooded from his face, and they shall be broken; even the one taking the lead of the covenant.
DAN 11:23 And because of the interminglings with him he shall deal in treachery. And he shall ascend, and shall excel in strength over him by a little nation.
DAN 11:24 And in prosperity and in plentiful places he shall come; and he shall do what his fathers did not, and the fathers of his fathers. Plunder, and spoils, and substance, he will disperse to them. And against Egypt he will devise his devices for a time.
DAN 11:25 And his strength shall be awakened, and his heart against the king of the south with a great force; and the king of the south shall join together in war, and in great power, even in strength exceedingly. And he shall not stand, for they shall devise devices against him.
DAN 11:26 And they shall eat the things necessary of his, and they shall break him, and forces shall break up; and many slain shall fall.
DAN 11:27 And both the kings - their hearts are for wickedness, and at one table they shall speak lies, and it shall not straighten out, for the end is for a time.
DAN 11:28 And he shall return unto his land with much substance, and his heart against holy covenant. And he shall act, and shall return unto his land.
DAN 11:29 In the time he shall return, and shall come in the south; and it will not be as the first and the last.
DAN 11:30 And they shall enter in it - even the ones coming forth, the Chittim. And he shall be humbled, and shall return, and shall be enraged against holy covenant. And he shall act, and shall return, and shall perceive with the ones forsaking holy covenant.
DAN 11:31 And from him arms shall rise up, and shall profane the sanctuary of the might. And they shall change over the perpetual sacrifice, and shall offer an obliterating abomination.
DAN 11:32 And the ones acting lawlessly shall bring upon a covenant by a slip. And a people knowing his God shall grow strong, and shall act.
DAN 11:33 And the discerning of the people shall perceive in many things, and shall be weak by the broadsword, and by flame, and by captivity, and by ravaging of days.
DAN 11:34 And in the weakening of them, they shall be helped with a little help; and many shall be added unto them by a slip.
DAN 11:35 And of the ones perceiving shall weaken, to purify them by fire, and to choose, and to be uncovered until the time of the end - for it is still for a time.
DAN 11:36 And he shall do according to his will; and the king shall be exalted and magnified over every god, and over the God of gods, and shall speak pompous words, and shall prosper until of which the wrath should be completed. For unto completion it is coming to pass.
DAN 11:37 And unto all gods of his fathers he will not take notice, nor the desire of women; and concerning every god he will not take notice; for above all he will be magnified.
DAN 11:38 And he will glorify a god of fortress at his place. And a god whom his fathers knew not he shall glorify with gold, and silver, and precious stone, and with desirable things.
DAN 11:39 And he shall act in the fortresses of refuge with a strange god, of which ever he should recognize. And he shall multiply glory, and shall submit to them many; and the land he shall divide by gifts.
DAN 11:40 And in end time he will mix horns with the king of the south; and the king of the north shall be gathered together unto him with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships. And he shall enter into the land, and shall break, and go by.
DAN 11:41 And he shall enter into the land of glory, and many shall be weakened. And these shall be delivered from out of his hand - Edom and Moab, and the sovereignty of the sons of Ammon.
DAN 11:42 And he shall stretch out his hand upon the land; and the land of Egypt will not be for deliverance.
DAN 11:43 And he shall dominate by the concealed things of gold and of silver, and in all the desirable things of Egypt, and of the Libyans, and Ethiopians, in their fortresses.
DAN 11:44 And hearings shall disturb him from out of the east, and the north. And he shall come in rage with many to obliterate, and to devote many to consumption.
DAN 11:45 And he shall pitch his tent of a royal pavilion between the seas, in the holy mountain of glory. And he shall come unto his parts, and there shall not be the one rescuing him.
DAN 12:1 And in that time shall rise up Michael the great ruler, the one standing for the sons of your people. And it will be a time of affliction such as has not taken place from of which time there became a nation on the earth, until that time. And in that time your people shall be delivered, every one found being written in the book.
DAN 12:2 And many of the ones sleeping in an embankment of earth shall awaken, these unto eternal life, and these others unto scorning, and for eternal shame.
DAN 12:3 And the ones perceiving shall shine forth as the brightness of the firmament; and of the many just ones as the stars into the eons and still.
DAN 12:4 And you, Daniel. obstruct the words, and set a seal upon the scroll, until the time of completion, until many should be taught, and the knowledge be multiplied!
DAN 12:5 And I beheld, I Daniel, and behold, two others stood, one here on this bank of the river, and one here on the other bank of the river.
DAN 12:6 And they said to the man being clothed with the linen clothes, who was upon the water of the river, Until when will be the end of which you have spoken of the wonders?
DAN 12:7 And I heard the man being clothed with the linen clothes, who was upon the water of the river. And he raised up high his right hand, and his left unto the heaven. And he swore an oath to the one living into the eon, that for a time and times and half a time, in the completing the dispersing hand of people having been sanctified, they shall know all these things.
DAN 12:8 And I heard, and I perceived not. And I said, O lord, what of these last things?
DAN 12:9 And he said, Go Daniel! For the words are obstructed and sealed until end time.
DAN 12:10 Many shall be chosen and whitened and purified by fire and sanctified. And the lawless ones shall act lawlessly, and all the lawless ones shall not perceive; but the intelligent shall perceive.
DAN 12:11 And from the time of the alteration change. of the perpetual sacrifice, and of the putting the abomination of desolation - a thousand two hundred ninety days.
DAN 12:12 Blessed is the one enduring, and coming into a thousand three hundred thirty-five days.
DAN 12:13 And you, go, for satisfying completion. And you shall rest, and shall rise up at your lot at the completion of days.
HOS 1:1 The word of the LORD which came to Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, and Jotham, and Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam son of Joash, king of Israel.
HOS 1:2 The beginning of the word of the LORD by Hosea. And the LORD said to Hosea, Proceed, take to yourself a wife of harlotry and children of harlotry! For by fornicating the land shall fornicate away from going after the LORD.
HOS 1:3 And he went and took Gomer daughter of Diblaim. And she conceived, and bore to him a son.
HOS 1:4 And the LORD said to him, Call his name Jezreel! For yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel on the house of Judah, and I will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel.
HOS 1:5 And it will be in that day, I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel.
HOS 1:6 And she conceived again, and bore a daughter. And he said to him, Call the name of her, Not Being Shown Mercy! For in no way shall I proceed still to show mercy on the house of Israel. But by resisting I will resist them.
HOS 1:7 But the sons of Judah I will show mercy, and will deliver them by the LORD their God; but I will not deliver them by bow, nor by broadsword, nor by battle, nor by horses, nor by horsemen.
HOS 1:8 And she weaned Not Being Shown Mercy. And she conceived and bore a son.
HOS 1:9 And he said, Call his name, Not My People! For you are not my people, and I am not of you.
HOS 1:10 And shall be the number of the sons of Israel as the sand of the sea in which shall not be measured out nor shall be counted out. And it will be in the place of which it was said to them, You are not my people - they shall be called, Sons of the living God.
HOS 1:11 And the sons of Judah and the sons of Israel shall be gathered together, and shall appoint to themselves one sovereign. And they shall ascend from out of the land. For great is the day of Jezreel.
HOS 2:1 Speak to your brothers, My People, and to your sister, Being Shown Mercy!
HOS 2:2 Plead with your mother! Plead, for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband! And I will lift away her harlotry from in front of me, and her adultery from between her breasts,
HOS 2:3 so that I shall strip her naked, and restore her as the day of her birth. And I will set her as desolate, and I will arrange her as a waterless land, and I will kill her by thirst.
HOS 2:4 And on her children in no way shall I show mercy, for they are children of harlotry.
HOS 2:5 For their mother fornicated. The one bearing them disgraced them. For she said, I will go after my lovers, the ones giving to me my breads, and my water, and my garments, and my linen bands, and my olive oil, and all as much as is fit for me.
HOS 2:6 On account of this, behold, I shut up her way with barbs, and I will block her ways; and her road in no way should she find.
HOS 2:7 And she shall pursue her lovers, and in no way shall she overtake them. And she shall seek them, and in no way shall she find them. And she shall say, I shall go and return to my former husband, for it was good to me then rather than now.
HOS 2:8 And she knew not that I gave to her the grain, and the wine, and the olive oil, and multiplied silver to her. But she made silver and gold things to Baal.
HOS 2:9 On account of this I will return, and carry away my grain according to its season, and my wine in its time. And I will remove my garments and my linen bands so as to not cover her indecency.
HOS 2:10 And now I will uncover her uncleanness before her lovers, and not one shall rescue her from out of my hand.
HOS 2:11 And I will turn away all her gladness of her holiday feasts, and her new moons, and her sabbaths, and all her festivals.
HOS 2:12 And I will remove her grapevine, and her fig-trees - as much as she said, These are my wages which my lovers gave to me. And I will appoint them for a testimony. And the wild beasts of the field shall devour them, and the birds of the heaven, and the reptiles of the earth.
HOS 2:13 And I will take vengeance upon her for the days of the Baals, in which she sacrificed to them, and put on her ear-rings, and her hanging necklaces, and went after her lovers. But me she forgot, says the LORD.
HOS 2:14 On account of this, behold, I will wander her, and I will order her as desolate, and will speak unto her heart.
HOS 2:15 And I will give to her her possessions from there, and the valley of Achan to open wide her understanding. And she shall be humbled there according to the days of her infancy, and according to the days of her ascending from out of the land of Egypt.
HOS 2:16 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, she shall call me, My husband, and shall not call me any longer, Baalim.
HOS 2:17 And I will lift away the names of the Baalim from her mouth, and in no way should their names be remembered any longer.
HOS 2:18 And I will ordain to them a covenant in that day with the wild beasts of the field, and with the birds of the heaven, and the reptiles of the earth. And I will break bow and broadsword and war from the earth. And I will settle upon hope.
HOS 2:19 And I shall espouse you to myself into the eon. And I shall espouse you to myself in righteousness, and in equity, and in mercy, and in compassions.
HOS 2:20 And I will espouse you to myself in trust. And you shall recognize the LORD.
HOS 2:21 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, I will give heed to the heaven, and the heaven shall give heed to the earth.
HOS 2:22 And the earth shall heed the grain, and the wine, and the olive oil. And they shall give heed to Jezreel.
HOS 2:23 And I will sow her to myself upon the earth. And I will love the one not being loved. And I will say to the one not my people, You are my people. And he shall say, You are the LORD my God.
HOS 3:1 And the LORD said to me, You go again and love a woman loving evil and an adulteress, even as the LORD loves the sons of Israel, and they look away unto strange gods, and are fond of cakes with dried grapes!
HOS 3:2 And I hired her to myself for fifteen pieces of silver, and a homer of barley, and a skin flask of wine.
HOS 3:3 And I said to her, For many days you shall sit down by me, and in no way should you commit harlotry, nor should you be to a man, and I will be unto you.
HOS 3:4 For many days the sons of Israel shall sit down with there not being a king, nor there being a ruler, nor there being a sacrifice, nor there being an altar, nor a priesthood, nor manifestations.Urim \& Thummim.
HOS 3:5 And after these things the sons of Israel shall return, and shall seek the LORD their God, and David their king. And they shall be amazed over the LORD, and over his good things at the latter end of the days.
HOS 4:1 Hear the word of the LORD, O sons of Israel! For there is a case to the LORD against the ones dwelling the land, for there is not truth, nor mercy, nor full knowledge of God upon the land.
HOS 4:2 Curse, and lie, and murder, and fraud, and adultery - it poured upon the earth, and they mingled blood with blood.
HOS 4:3 On account of this the land shall mourn, and it shall be diminished with all the ones dwelling it - with the wild beasts of the field, and with the winged creatures of the heaven, and the fishes of the sea - they shall fail,
HOS 4:4 so that not neither should any adjudicate, nor should any one reprove. But my people are as a priest disputing.
HOS 4:5 And he shall weaken by day, and the prophet also shall weaken with you - I likened your mother to night.
HOS 4:6 My people are likened as ones not having knowledge. For since you thrusted away full knowledge, even I will thrust you away, so as to not officiate as priest to me. And as you forgot the laws of your God, I shall forget your children.
HOS 4:7 According to their multitude, so they sinned against me - I will appoint their glory for dishonor.
HOS 4:8 The sins of my people they shall eat, and in their iniquities shall take their lives.
HOS 4:9 And it will be as the people, so also the priest. And I will avenge upon him his ways; and his deliberations I will recompense to him.
HOS 4:10 And they shall eat, but in no way should be filled up. They committed harlotry, and no way should they be straightened. For they abandoned to watch for the LORD.
HOS 4:11 Harlotry, and wine, and strong drink took the heart of my people.
HOS 4:12 By their symbols they asked, and by their rods they reported to him. In a spirit of harlotry they were wandered, and they fornicated from their God.
HOS 4:13 Upon the tops of the mountains they were sacrificed, and upon the hills they were sacrificed underneath the oak, and white poplar, and the overshadowing tree, for good protection. Because of this your daughters shall fornicate, and your brides shall commit adultery.
HOS 4:14 And in no way shall I pay a visit unto your daughters whenever they should commit harlotry, nor unto your daughters-in-law whenever they should commit adultery. For they blended together with the harlots, and were sacrificed with the ones initiating rites. And the people not perceiving closely joined with the harlot.
HOS 4:15 But you, O Israel, be not ignorant! And Judah, enter not into Gilgal, and ascend not unto the house of On, and swear not an oath, saying, The LORD lives!
HOS 4:16 For Israel was heated as a heifer being in heat. Now the LORD will feed them as a lamb in a broad space.
HOS 4:17 Ephraim was a partner of idols - he made obstacles to himself.
HOS 4:18 He took up with Canaanites committing harlotry. They fornicated and loved dishonor of their neighing.
HOS 4:19 You are a tumultuous wind in her wings, and they shall be disgraced because of their altars.
HOS 5:1 Hear these things, O priests! And take heed, O house of Israel! And give ear O house of the king! For judgment is against you, for you were a snare in the Height, and as a net being stretched out upon Tabor,
HOS 5:2 which the ones catching the game firmly fastened. But I am your corrector.
HOS 5:3 I knew Ephraim; and Israel is not removed from me. For now Ephraim fornicated. Israel was defiled.
HOS 5:4 They gave not their deliberations to turn towards their God. For a spirit of harlotry is in the midst of them, and the LORD they knew not.
HOS 5:5 And the insolence of Israel shall be humbled unto his face. And Israel and Ephraim shall weaken in their iniquities; and Judah also shall be weak with them.
HOS 5:6 With sheep and calves they shall go to seek after the LORD, and in no way should they find him; he has turned aside from them.
HOS 5:7 For they abandoned the LORD. For alien children were born to them. Now the blight shall devour them and their lots of heritage.
HOS 5:8 Trump the trumpet upon the hills! Sound out upon the high places! Proclaim in the house of On! Benjamin is startled.
HOS 5:9 Ephraim became for extinction in the days of reproof. Among the tribes of Israel I showed to be trustworthy.
HOS 5:10 The rulers of Judah became as ones altering boundaries. Upon them I will pour out my impulse as water.
HOS 5:11 Ephraim tyrannized over his opponent - he trampled judgment, for he began to go after the vain things.
HOS 5:12 And I will be as a disturbance to Ephraim, and as a spur to the house of Judah.
HOS 5:13 And Ephraim beheld his disease, and Judah his grief. And Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent ambassadors to king Jareb. And he was not able to rescue. And in no way should there be a discontinuance of your grief.
HOS 5:14 For I am as a panther to Ephraim, and as a lion to the house of Judah. And I will seize by force, and I will go, and I will take, and there shall not be one rescuing.
HOS 5:15 I shall go, and shall return unto my place, until of which they should be removed from view. And they shall seek my face.
HOS 6:1 In their affliction they will rise early to me, saying, We should go and return to the LORD our God, for he snatched us away, and he will heal us. He shall strike, and he shall dress our wounds.
HOS 6:2 He will heal us after two days, on the third day we shall rise up, and we shall live before him.
HOS 6:3 And we shall know, and we shall pursue to know the LORD - as dawn readied, we shall find him. And he shall come to us as rain early and late to the earth.
HOS 6:4 What shall I do to you, O Ephraim? What shall I do to you, O Judah? For your mercy is as an early morning cloud, and as early morning dew going away.
HOS 6:5 On account of this I mowed you by the prophets. I killed them by the discourse of my mouth. And your judgment as light shall go forth.
HOS 6:6 For mercy I want, and not sacrifice; and full knowledge of God rather than whole burnt offerings.
HOS 6:7 But they are as a man violating covenant. There they showed disdain of me.
HOS 6:8 Gilead is a city working vanities, disturbing water.
HOS 6:9 And your strength is as a man who is a maruader. The priests hid - they murdered in the way of Shechem. For they committed lawlessness in the house of Israel.
HOS 6:10 I beheld a cause for shuddering there, even the harlotry of Ephraim. Israel and Judah are defiled.
HOS 6:11 Begin to gather the vintage for yourself in my returning the captivity of my people!
HOS 7:1 In my healing Israel, then the injustice of Ephraim was uncovered, and the evil of Samaria. For they worked falsehoods; and a thief entered to him - a robber stripping him in his way.
HOS 7:2 So that they sing together in concert as ones singing in their heart that I remembered all their evils. Now their deliberations encircled them - they took place before my face.
HOS 7:3 In their evils they gladdened a king, and in their lies rulers.
HOS 7:4 All committing adultery are as an oven burning for baking - burning from the flame, from mixing together of the fat until its being leavened wholly.
HOS 7:5 In the days of our kings the rulers began to be enraged from wine. He stretched out his hands with pestilent ones.
HOS 7:6 For their hearts were kindled as an oven in their breaking down all the night. Ephraim was filled of sleep; in the morning it was kindled as a flame of a fire.
HOS 7:7 They were all heated as an oven, and they devoured their judges. All their kings are fallen - there was not one among them calling to me.
HOS 7:8 Ephraim is intermixed in his peoples; Ephraim became a cake baked in hot ashes not being turned over.
HOS 7:9 And strangers ate his strength, but he knew not. And gray hairs broke out to him, and he knew not.
HOS 7:10 And the insolence of Israel shall be humbled unto his face. But they turned not towards the LORD their God, and they sought not after him in all these things.
HOS 7:11 And Ephraim was as a mindless dove, not having a heart. Egypt he called upon, and unto Assyria they went.
HOS 7:12 As whenever they shall go, I will put over them my net; as the birds of heaven I will lead them down; I will correct them in the hearing of their affliction.
HOS 7:13 Woe to them, for they leaped back from me. Wretched are they, for they were impious against me. But I ransomed them, but they spoke ill against me - lies,
HOS 7:14 and yelled out not to me with their hearts, but only shrieked in their beds. For grain and wine they mutilated themselves.
HOS 7:15 They were corrected by me - I strengthened their arms; and against me they devised wicked things.
HOS 7:16 They returned unto nothing. They became as a bow being stretched tight. Their rulers shall fall by the broadsword because of the stupidity of their tongue. This is their disparagement in the land of Egypt.
HOS 8:1 Into their bosom, as land, as an eagle against the house of the LORD, because they violated my covenant, and against my law they were impious.
HOS 8:2 For me they shall cry out, O God, we have known you.
HOS 8:3 For Israel threw away good things - they pursued an enemy.
HOS 8:4 For themselves they made one to reign, and not through me. They ruled, and they did not make it known to me. With their silver and their gold they made to themselves idols, so that they should be utterly destroyed.
HOS 8:5 Cast off your calf, O Samaria! My rage is provoked against them. For how long will they in no way be able to cleanse themselves in Israel?
HOS 8:6 And the fabricator made it, and it is not God. For your calf was wandering you, O Samaria.
HOS 8:7 For being destroyed by the wind they sowed, and their final end looks out for them - a sheaf not having strength to produce flour. And if even it should produce, strangers shall devour it.
HOS 8:8 Israel was swallowed down. Now it became among the nations as a useless item.
HOS 8:9 For they ascended unto Assyria. Ephraim flourished again according to himself - he loved bribes.
HOS 8:10 On account of this, they shall be delivered up among the nations. Now I will take them, and they shall abate a little to anoint a king and rulers.
HOS 8:11 For Ephraim multiplied altars. For his beloved altars became sins to him.
HOS 8:12 I will write extra to him. His laws were considered as strange things - the beloved altars.
HOS 8:13 For if they should sacrifice a sacrifice, and should eat meats, the LORD shall not favorably receive them. Now he will remember their iniquities, and he shall avenge their sins. They returned unto Egypt.
HOS 8:14 And Israel forgot the one making him, and they built sacred precincts; and Judah multiplied cities being walled up. And I will send out fire unto his cities, and it shall devour his foundations.
HOS 9:1 Rejoice not, O Israel, nor be glad as the peoples! For you went whoring from the LORD your God; you loved gifts upon every threshing-floor of grain.
HOS 9:2 The threshing-floor and wine vat did not know them, and the wine lied to them.
HOS 9:3 They dwelt not in the land of the LORD. Ephraim dwelt in Egypt, and among the Assyrians they shall eat unclean things.
HOS 9:4 They offered not a libation to the LORD of wine, and were not delicious to him. Their sacrifices were as bread of mourning to them - all the ones eating them shall be defiled. For their breads for their lives shall not enter into the house of the LORD.
HOS 9:5 What will you do in the day of festival, and in the day of the holiday feast of the LORD?
HOS 9:6 On account of this, behold, they are gone from the misery of Egypt, and Memphis shall look out for them, and Machmas shall entomb them. Their silver - ruin shall inherit it; thorn-bushes shall be in their tents.
HOS 9:7 The days of vengeance have come, the days of your recompense have come. And Israel shall be afflicted as if the prophet moved out of place - a man carried by the wind. Because of the multitude of your iniquities your frenzy was multiplied.
HOS 9:8 The watchman of Ephraim was with God; but the prophet is a crooked snare upon all his ways. They firmly fastened frenzy in the house of God.
HOS 9:9 They were corrupted according to the days of the hill. He shall remember their iniquities, he will punish their sins.
HOS 9:10 I found Israel as a grape in a wilderness; as a fig in the early fig-tree I beheld their fathers. They entered to Baal Peor, and they were separated for shame; and the things being abhorred became as the things being loved.
HOS 9:11 Ephraim, as a bird was spread forth away - their glory of births, and pangs, and from conceptions.
HOS 9:12 For if even they should nourish their children, they shall be made childless of men. For there is even a woe to them - my flesh from them.
HOS 9:13 Ephraim, in which manner I saw, rendered their children as game - to lead out their children for piercing.
HOS 9:14 Give to them, O LORD! What will you give to them? Give to them a womb being childless and dry breasts!
HOS 9:15 All their evils are in Gilgal; for there I detested them. Because of the evils of their practices I will cast them out of my house. No way shall I proceed to love them. All their rulers resist persuasion.
HOS 9:16 Ephraim toiled. His roots were dried. In no way should he bear fruit any longer. For if they should bear, I shall kill the desires of their bellies.
HOS 9:17 God shall thrust them away, for they hearkened not to him; and they will be wanderers among the nations.
HOS 10:1 Israel is a grapevine having good vine branches - her fruit prospering. According to the multitude of her fruits he multiplied the altars. According to the good things of his land he built monuments.
HOS 10:2 They portioned their hearts; now they shall be obliterated. He shall raze their altars; their monuments shall languish.
HOS 10:3 For now they shall say, There is not a king for us, for we feared not the LORD; but the king, what shall he do to us?
HOS 10:4 Speaking words, lying excuses - it shall ordain a covenant. Judgment shall rise as wild grass upon an uncultivated field.
HOS 10:5 To the calf of the house of On the ones dwelling Samaria shall sojourn - for his people mourned for it. And as they greatly embittered him, they shall rejoice over his glory, for he was displaced from him.
HOS 10:6 And having tied it for Assyria, they carried away tribute to king Jareb in a gift. Ephraim shall receive shame; Israel shall be ashamed in his counsel.
HOS 10:7 Samaria threw off her king as a stick upon the face of the water.
HOS 10:8 And the shrines of On shall be lifted away - sins of Israel. Thorn-bushes and thistles shall ascend upon their altars, and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us! and to the hills, Fall upon us!
HOS 10:9 From of which time the hills existed, Israel sinned. There they stood. No way should it overtake them in the hill - war came upon the children of iniquity.
HOS 10:10 To correct them - and peoples shall be brought together against them in their being corrected for their two iniquities.
HOS 10:11 Ephraim - a heifer being taught, loving altercation. But I shall come upon the best of her neck. I will conduct Ephraim; I will pass silently over Judah; Jacob shall grow in strength against him.
HOS 10:12 Sow to yourselves for righteousness! Gather the vintage for the fruit of life! Enlighten yourselves of the light of knowledge! Inquire of the LORD until the offspring of righteousness comes to you!
HOS 10:13 Why did you pass over impiety in silence, and gathered the vintage of her iniquity? You ate false fruit, for you hoped in your chariots, in the abundance of your power.
HOS 10:14 And destruction shall rise up among your people, and all your places being walled around shall be undone. As the ruler Shalman departed out of the house of Jeroboam in the days of battle, they dashed the mother upon children.
HOS 10:15 So I will do to you, O house of Israel, in front of your evils.
HOS 11:1 Early they were disowned, the king of Israel was disowned. For Israel is an infant, and I loved him, and from out of Egypt I called back his children.
HOS 11:2 As I called them back, so they moved from in front of me. They sacrificed to the Baalim, and to the carved images they burned incense.
HOS 11:3 And I bound Ephraim; I took him upon my arm. And they knew not that I have healed them.
HOS 11:4 In corruption of men I stretched them with the bonds of my affections. And I will be to them as a man slapping upon his cheek. And I shall look to him; I will prevail to him.
HOS 11:5 Ephraim dwelt in Egypt, and Assyria - he was his king, for he wanted not to return.
HOS 11:6 And he weakened by the broadsword in his cities, and rested with his hands. And they shall eat of their own deliberations.
HOS 11:7 And his people are hanging from the thing of his house. And God shall be enraged against his esteemed, and in no way should he exalt him.
HOS 11:8 How shall I deal with you, O Ephraim? Shall I shield you, O Israel? How shall I deal with you - as Admah? Shall I appoint you even as Zeboim? My heart shall be converted in the same thing; my repentance was disturbed.
HOS 11:9 No way shall I act according to the anger of my rage. No way should I abandon Ephraim to be wiped away. For I am God, and not man - the holy one among you. And I will not enter into the city.
HOS 11:10 I shall go after the LORD. As a lion he shall bellow, for he shall roar, and children of the waters shall be startled.
HOS 11:11 They shall be startled as a bird from out of Egypt, and as a dove from out of the land of the Assyrians. And I will restore them unto their houses, says the LORD.
HOS 11:12 Ephraim encircled me with a lie, and the house of Israel and Judah with impious deeds. Now God knew them, and they shall be called a holy people of God.
HOS 12:1 But Ephraim is an evil spirit, he pursued the burning wind the entire day. He multiplied empty and vain things; and he ordained a covenant with the Assyrians, and traded olive oil in Egypt.
HOS 12:2 And there is a case with the LORD against Judah, to punish Jacob. According to his ways and according to his practices he will recompense to him.
HOS 12:3 In the belly he caught the heel of his brother, and in his toils he grew in strength with God.
HOS 12:4 And he grew in strength with the angel, and prevailed. They wept and beseeched me. In the house of On they found me; there it was spoken to them.
HOS 12:5 But the LORD God almighty will be his memorial.
HOS 12:6 And you shall return to your God. Guard mercy and judgment, and approach to your God always!
HOS 12:7 Canaan, in his hand is a yoke of iniquity - he loved to tyrannize.
HOS 12:8 And Ephraim said, But I am rich, I have found respite for myself. All produce of his toils shall not be found in him, because of iniquities in which he sinned.
HOS 12:9 But I, the LORD your God, led you out of the land of Egypt. Still I will settle you in tents as in the days of the holiday feast.
HOS 12:10 And I will speak by prophets, and I multiplied visions, and by the hands of prophets I was likened.
HOS 12:11 If Gilgal is not, then even rulers sacrificing in Gilgal were false, and their altars are as tortoise like heaps upon an uncultivated field.
HOS 12:12 And Jacob withdrew into the plain of Syria, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he guarded sheep.
HOS 12:13 And by a prophet the LORD led Israel from out of the land of Egypt, and by a prophet he was guarded.
HOS 12:14 Ephraim was enraged and provoked to anger, therefore his blood shall be poured out upon him, and the LORD shall recompense to him his scorning.
HOS 13:1 According to the word, Ephraim conceived ordinances himself in Israel, and appointed to Baal, and died.
HOS 13:2 And now they proceeded to sin, and made for themselves molten castings of their silver - according to the image of idols, the works of fabricators being completed for them. They say, Sacrifice men, for the calves have ceased!
HOS 13:3 On account of this they will be as an early morning cloud, and as early morning dew going away, as dust being blown away from the threshing floor, and as a vapor from tears.
HOS 13:4 But I the LORD your God, I led you from out of the land of Egypt, and you shall not know a god besides me, and there is not one delivering besides me.
HOS 13:5 I tended you in the wilderness in an uninhabited land.
HOS 13:6 According to their pastures, so they were filled unto fullness, and they exalted their hearts; because of this they forgot me.
HOS 13:7 And I will be to them as a panther, and as a leopard, according to the way of the Assyrians.
HOS 13:8 I will meet them as a bear being perplexed. And I will tear up the enclosure of their heart. And the cubs of the forest shall devour them there. And wild beasts of the field shall pull them apart.
HOS 13:9 In your corruption, O Israel, who will help?
HOS 13:10 Where is this your king? And let him preserve you in all your cities! Let him judge you, whom you said, Give to me a king and a ruler!
HOS 13:11 And I gave to you a king in my anger, and I sufficed in my rage.
HOS 13:12 A confederacy of injustice - Ephraim, his sin being hidden.
HOS 13:13 Pangs as one giving birth shall come to him - this your intelligent son; for now in no way should he stand in the destruction of children.
HOS 13:14 From the hand of Hades I shall rescue them; from death I will ransom them. Where is your punishment, O death? Where is your sting, O Hades? Consolation is hidden from my eyes.
HOS 13:15 For this, he will separate between brothers. The LORD will bring up a burning wind from out of the wilderness upon him, and shall dry up his arteries. He shall make quite desolate his springs. He shall totally dry up his land, and all his desirable items.
HOS 13:16 Samaria shall be obliterated, for she withstood against her God. By the broadsword they shall fall, and the ones under their breasts shall be dashed, and the ones of them having one in the womb shall be torn up.
HOS 14:1 Return, O Israel, to the LORD your God! For you are weakened by your iniquities.
HOS 14:2 Take after your own words, and return to the LORD! Speak to him, so that you should not receive for your iniquities, and so that you should receive good things, and we will recompense the fruit of our lips!
HOS 14:3 Assyria in no way shall deliver us. Upon a horse we shall not ascend. No longer in any way should we say, Our gods, unto the works of our hands. Who among you shall show mercy on the orphan?
HOS 14:4 I will repair their dwellings. I will love them confessedly; for my anger turned away from them.
HOS 14:5 And I will be as dew to Israel. He shall bloom as a lily, and shall cast his roots as Lebanon.
HOS 14:6 His branches shall go forth, and he will be as a fruitful olive, and his smell as Lebanon.
HOS 14:7 They shall return and sit under his protection; they shall live and shall be fixed firmly - shall be intoxicated. in grain, and shall blossom as a grapevine. The memorial of him is as the wine of Lebanon.
HOS 14:8 To Ephraim, what is there to him yet and to idols? I humbled him, and I shall strengthen him. I am as a juniper being dense. From me your fruit has been found.
HOS 14:9 Who is a wise one, and perceives these things? discerning, and recognizes them? For straight are the ways of the LORD, and the just ones shall go by them. But the impious ones shall weaken in them.
JOE 1:1 The word of the LORD which came to Joel the son of Pethuel.
JOE 1:2 Hear these things, O elders, and give ear all dwelling the land. Have such things taken place in your days, or in the days of your fathers?
JOE 1:3 Concerning them, describe to your children, and your children to their children, and their children unto another generation!
JOE 1:4 The things remaining of the caterpillar the locust devoured; and the things remaining of the locust the grasshopper devoured; and the things remaining of the grasshopper the blight devoured.
JOE 1:5 Sober up, O ones being intoxicated from their wine! Weep and wail all drinking the wine unto intoxication! For it was lifted away from your mouth.
JOE 1:6 For a nation ascended upon my land, one strong and innumerable. His teeth are as lion's teeth, and his molars as cubs.
JOE 1:7 He appointed my grapevine for extinction, and my fig-trees for a splinter. In searching he searched it, and tossed it down; he whitened its vine branches.
JOE 1:8 Wail to me more than a bride being girded with sackcloth for the husband of her virginity.
JOE 1:9 The sacrifice and the libation offering have been lifted away from the house of the LORD. Mourn, O priests, ministers of the LORD!
JOE 1:10 For the plains languish. Mourn, O earth, for the grain languishes! The wine was dried up; the olive oil lessened.
JOE 1:11 The farmers were withered. Wail for your possessions - for the wheat and barley! for the gathering of crops he has destroyed from out of the field.
JOE 1:12 The grapevine was dried up, and the fig-trees were lessened; pomegranate, and palm, and apple and all the trees of the field were dried up; for the sons of men shamed joy.
JOE 1:13 Gird and beat yourselves, O priests! Wail, O ones ministering at the altar! Enter, sleep in sackcloths, O ones ministering to God! for the sacrifice offering and libation offering are at a distance from the house of your God.
JOE 1:14 Sanctify a fast! Proclaim a sacred service! Bring together elders, (all the ones dwelling the land,) into the house of the LORD your God! And cry out to the LORD fervently!
JOE 1:15 Woe, woe, woe for the day - for the day of the LORD is near. And as misery from misery, it shall come.
JOE 1:16 Were not foods lifted away in front of your eyes from out of the house of your God - even gladness and joy?
JOE 1:17 Heifers leap in their stables; treasures are obliterated; wine vats were razed; for the grain was dried up.
JOE 1:18 What shall we put aside for ourselves? The herds of oxen weep, for not a pasture exists to them; and the flocks of the sheep were obliterated.
JOE 1:19 To you, O LORD, we shall yell. For fire consumed the beautiful things of the wilderness, and a flame incinerated all the trees of the field.
JOE 1:20 And the cattle of the plain look up to you, for the releases of waters were dried up, and fire devoured the beautiful things of the wilderness.
JOE 2:1 Trump a trumpet in Zion! Proclaim in my holy mountain, and confound all the ones dwelling the land! for the day of the LORD is at hand - for it is near.
JOE 2:2 A day of darkness and dimness; a day of cloud and fog. As the dawn shall be poured upon the mountains, so a vast and strong people; likened to it has not happened from the eon, and after it it shall not be added unto years, for generations of generations.
JOE 2:3 The things before him are a consuming fire; and behind him a flame being lighted. As a paradise of delicacy is the earth before his face, and the things behind him a plain of extinction - and ones escaping will not be to him.
JOE 2:4 As a sight of horses so the appearance of them; and as horsemen so they shall pursue.
JOE 2:5 As the sound of chariots upon the tops of the mountains they shall leap, even as the sound of a flame of fire devouring stubble, and as a vast and strong people being deployed for battle.
JOE 2:6 From in front of him peoples shall be destroyed; every face as a burnt earthen pot.
JOE 2:7 As warriors, they shall run; and as men of war, they shall ascend upon the walls. And each in his way shall go, and in no way shall they turn aside from their roads.
JOE 2:8 And each shall not be at a distance from his brother. They shall go being burdened with their shields; and with arrows they shall fall, and no way shall they be ended.
JOE 2:9 They shall take hold of the city, and upon the walls they shall run. Unto the houses they shall ascend, and through the windows they shall enter as thieves.
JOE 2:10 Before his face the earth shall be confounded, and the heaven shall be shaken. The sun and the moon shall darken, and the stars shall let down their brightness.
JOE 2:11 And the LORD shall give forth his voice from in front of his force. For his camp is exceedingly great. For his words are strong works. For great is the day of the LORD, exceedingly apparent; and who will be fit for it?
JOE 2:12 And now, says the LORD, Return to me with your entire heart in fasting, and weeping, and beating of the breast!
JOE 2:13 And tear your hearts, and not your garments! And return to the LORD your God! For he is merciful and pitying, lenient and full of mercy, and changing his mind concerning the evils.
JOE 2:14 Who knows if he shall turn and change his mind, and leave behind him a blessing; even a sacrifice offering and a libation offering to the LORD our God?
JOE 2:15 Trump a trumpet in Zion! Sanctify a fast! Proclaim a sacred service!
JOE 2:16 Gather together people! Sanctify an assembly! Choose elders! Gather together infants nursing breasts! Let the groom go forth from out of his bedroom, and the bride from out of her nuptial chamber!
JOE 2:17 The priests ministering between the footing and the altar shall weep to the LORD, and shall say, Spare, O LORD, your people! and, You should not give your inheritance unto scorn for the nations to rule them; so that among the nations they should not say, Where is their God?
JOE 2:18 But the LORD was jealous of his land, and spared his people.
JOE 2:19 And the LORD answered, and said to his people, Behold, I shall send out to you the grain, and the wine, and the olive oil, and you shall be filled up of them. And I will not give you up any longer for scorning among the nations.
JOE 2:20 And the one from the north I will drive out from you, and I will push him into a waterless land. And I will obliterate his face into the foremost sea, and the ones of his rear unto the latter sea. And his rottenness shall ascend, and his groaning shall ascend, for he magnified his works.
JOE 2:21 Be of courage, O land! Rejoice and be glad! for the LORD magnified to act.
JOE 2:22 Be of courage, O cattle of the plain! for the plains of the wilderness have burst forth, for the tree bore its fruit, and fig-tree and grapevine yielded their strength.
JOE 2:23 And, O children of Zion, rejoice and be glad in the LORD your God! for he gave to you the foods for righteousness, and he shall rain to you early rain and late, as before.
JOE 2:24 2532 kaiAnd the threshing-floors shall be filled of grain, and the vats shall be overflowing of wine and oil.
JOE 2:25 And I will recompense to you for the years of which the blight devoured, and the grasshopper and locust, and the caterpillar, by my great force which I sent out unto you.
JOE 2:26 And you shall eat with solid food, and shall be filled up, and shall praise the name of the LORD your God, who did wonders among you. And in no way shall my people be disgraced into the eon.
JOE 2:27 And you shall realize that I am in the midst of Israel, even I the LORD your God, and there is not any besides me. And in no way shall my people be disgraced any longer into the eon.
JOE 2:28 And it will be after these things, I will pour out from my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your older men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions.
JOE 2:29 And even upon the menservants and upon the maidservants in those days I will pour out from my spirit.
JOE 2:30 And I will execute miracles in the heaven and upon the earth - blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke.
JOE 2:31 The sun shall convert into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the great and apparent day of the LORD.
JOE 2:32 And it will be all who ever shall call upon the name of the LORD shall be delivered. For in mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be one rescuing, as the LORD said, and one announcing good news of which the LORD was called upon.
JOE 3:1 For behold, I in those days, and in that time, whenever the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem shall return,
JOE 3:2 I will gather all the nations, and will lead them into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and will litigate with them there for my people and my inheritance Israel, whom I dispersed among the nations, even the one who divided my land.
JOE 3:3 And they cast lots over my people; and gave the boys to harlots, and sold the young women for wine - and they drank.
JOE 3:4 And what are you to me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all Galilee of the Philistines? Do you recompense to me a recompense? or do you have resentment to me? Swiftly and quickly I will recompense your recompense upon your heads;
JOE 3:5 because you took my silver and my gold, and the chosen things of mine - the good things you carried into your temples.
JOE 3:6 And the sons of Judah, and the sons of Jerusalem you rendered to the sons of the Greeks, so that you should push them from out of their borders.
JOE 3:7 And behold, I will awaken them from out of the place of which you rendered them there. And I will recompense your recompense onto your heads.
JOE 3:8 And I will render your sons and your daughters into the hands of sons of Judah, and they shall render them into captivity, into a nation far at a distance. For the LORD spoke.
JOE 3:9 Proclaim these things among the nations! Sanctify a war! Awaken the warriors! Lead forward and ascend all men of war!
JOE 3:10 Cut up your plows into broadswords, and your sickles into spears! Let the powerless say that, I am strong!
JOE 3:11 Gather together, and enter all nations round about! And gather together there! Let the gentle one be a warrior!
JOE 3:12 Awaken, and ascend all nations into the valley of Jehoshaphat! For there I will sit to separate all the nations round about.
JOE 3:13 Send out sickles, for the gathering of the crops stands by! Enter in! Tread, for the wine vat is full! The wine-vats overflow, for their evils are multiplied.
JOE 3:14 Sounds resounded in the valley of punishment; for the day of the LORD is near in the valley of punishment.
JOE 3:15 The sun and the moon shall darken, and the stars shall let down their brightness.
JOE 3:16 But the LORD shall shout aloud from Zion, and shall utter his voice from out of Jerusalem; and the heaven and the earth shall be shaken. But the LORD shall spare his people, and shall strengthen the sons of Israel.
JOE 3:17 And you shall know that I am the LORD your God encamping in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem will be holy, and foreigners shall not go through her any longer.
JOE 3:18 And it will be in that day, the mountains will trickle down sweetness, and the hills shall flow milk, and all the releases of Judah shall flow waters, and a spring shall come forth from out of the house of the LORD, and shall water the rushing stream of the rushes.
JOE 3:19 Egypt will be for extinction, and Edom for a plain of extinction, because of iniquities of the sons of Judah, because they poured out blood of the just one in their land.
JOE 3:20 But Judea shall dwell into the eon, and Jerusalem for generations of generations.
JOE 3:21 And I will require their blood, and in no way will I acquit. And the LORD shall encamp in Zion.
AMO 1:1 The words of Amos, which took place in Kirjath Jearim of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam son Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
AMO 1:2 And he said, The LORD uttered a sound from out of Zion, and from out of Jerusalem he gave his voice; and the pastures of the shepherds mourned, and the top of Carmel was dried up.
AMO 1:3 And the LORD said, For the three impious deeds of Damascus, even for the four, I will not turn away from him; because they sawed by iron saws the ones having one in the womb in Gilead.
AMO 1:4 And I will send a fire unto the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the foundations of the son of Hadad.
AMO 1:5 And I shall break the bars of Damascus, and I will utterly destroy the inhabitants of the plain of On, and will cut in pieces a tribe of the men of Eden; and select people of Syria shall be captured, says the LORD.
AMO 1:6 Thus says the LORD; For the three impious deeds of Gaza, and for the four, I will not turn away from them. Because of their capturing the captivity of Solomon, to close them up in Edom.
AMO 1:7 And I will send out fire upon the walls of Gaza, and it shall devour her foundations.
AMO 1:8 And I will utterly destroy the inhabitants of Ashdod, and shall lift away a tribe from Ashkelon, and I will bring my hand upon Ekron, and the rest of the Philistines shall be destroyed, says the LORD.
AMO 1:9 Thus says the LORD; For the three impious deeds of Tyre, even for the four, I will not turn away from her; because they closed up the captivity of Solomon in Edom, and remembered not the covenant of brothers.
AMO 1:10 And I will send out fire upon the walls of Tyre, and it shall devour her foundations.
AMO 1:11 Thus says the LORD; For the three impious deeds of Edom, even for the four, I will not turn away from them; because of his brother pursuing them with the broadsword, and laid waste the mother upon the earth, and seized by force for a testimony of his shuddering awe, and his impulse he kept unto victory.
AMO 1:12 And I will send forth fire against Teman, and it shall devour her foundations.
AMO 1:13 Thus says the LORD; for the three impious deeds of the sons of Ammon, even for the four, I will not turn away from them; because they ripped open the ones having one in the womb of the ones of Gilead, so that they should widen their borders.
AMO 1:14 And I will light a fire even against the walls of Rabbah, and it shall devour her foundations, with a cry in the day of war; and it shall be shaken in the days of her consumption.
AMO 1:15 And their king shall go into captivity - the priests and their rulers together, says the LORD.
AMO 2:1 Thus says the LORD; For the three impious deeds of Moab, even for four, I will not turn away from it; because they incinerated the bones of the king of Edom into powder.
AMO 2:2 And I will send fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the foundations of the cities. And Moab shall die in powerlessness with a sound and with a cry of a trumpet.
AMO 2:3 And I will utterly destroy the judge from out of her, and all her rulers I will kill with him, says the LORD.
AMO 2:4 Thus says the LORD; For the three impious deeds of the sons of Judah, even for the four, I will not turn away from it; because of their thrusting away the law of the LORD, and his orders they kept not, and their vain idols which they made caused them to wander, ones which their fathers followed after them.
AMO 2:5 And I will send out fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the foundations of Jerusalem.
AMO 2:6 Thus says the LORD; For the three impious deeds of Israel, even for the four, I will not turn away from; because they rendered silver for the just one, and the needy for sandals;
AMO 2:7 trampling upon the dust of the earth; and they smote for the head of the poor, and the way of the humble they turned aside; and a son and his father entered to the same maidservant, so that they should profane the name of their God.
AMO 2:8 And binding their garments with rough cords, they made canopies next to the altar, and wine of extortions they drank in the house of their God.
AMO 2:9 But I lifted away the Amorite from in front of them. As the height of cedar was his height, and he was strong as an oak. And I removed his fruit on top, and his roots beneath.
AMO 2:10 And I led you from out of the land of Egypt, and led you about in the wilderness forty years, to inherit the land of the Amorites.
AMO 2:11 And I took of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for sanctification. Are these things not so, O sons of Israel, says the LORD?
AMO 2:12 But you gave wine to drink for the ones having been sanctified; and to the prophets you gave charge, saying, In no way prophesy!
AMO 2:13 On account of this, behold, I roll you underneath - in which manner the wagon rolls being full of stubble.
AMO 2:14 And flight into exile shall be destroyed from the runner, and the strong in no way should hold his strength, and the warrior in no way should deliver his soul,
AMO 2:15 and the bowman in no way should stand, and the keen of his feet in no way should be preserved, and the horseman in no way should have delivered his life,
AMO 2:16 and the strong in no way shall find his heart in might, and the naked shall be pursued in that day, says the LORD.
AMO 3:1 Hear this word which the LORD spoke concerning you, O house of Israel, even according to every tribe of which I led from out of the land of Egypt! saying,
AMO 3:2 Only you I knew from out of all the tribes of the earth. On account of this I will take vengeance upon you for all your sins.
AMO 3:3 Shall two go together altogether if they do not make themselves known to each other?
AMO 3:4 Shall a lion bellow from out of his forest not having game? Shall a cub utter his voice from out of his haven altogether if anything should not have been seized?
AMO 3:5 Shall a bird fall upon the earth without a fowler? Shall a snare be opened up upon the earth without seizing anything?
AMO 3:6 Shall the trumpet sound out loud in the city, and the people shall not be terrified? Shall hurt be in a city which the LORD did it not?
AMO 3:7 For in no way shall the LORD God make a thing that he should not uncover instruction to his servants the prophets.
AMO 3:8 A lion shall bellow, and who will not be fearful? The LORD God spoke, and who will not prophesy?
AMO 3:9 Announce it to the places among the Assyrians, and unto the places in the land of Egypt! And say, Gather together upon the mountain of Samaria, and behold many wonders in the midst of her, and the tyranny in her!
AMO 3:10 And it knew not what will be before her, says the LORD - the ones treasuring up injustice and misery in their regions.
AMO 3:11 On account of this, thus says the LORD God; Tyre and round about your land shall be made desolate; and he shall lead out of you your strength, and shall tear in pieces your regions.
AMO 3:12 Thus says the LORD; In which manner the shepherd should pull out from the mouth of the lion two legs or a lobe of an ear, so shall the sons of Israel be pulled out - the ones dwelling in Samaria before a foreign tribe, and in Damascus.
AMO 3:13 O priests, hear and attest to the house of Jacob! says the LORD God almighty.
AMO 3:14 For in the day whenever I shall avenge the impious deeds of Israel upon him, also I will take vengeance upon the altars of Beth-el. And the horns of the altar shall be razed, and shall fall upon the ground.
AMO 3:15 I will confound, and I will strike the turreted house upon the harvest house; and the ivory houses shall be destroyed, and many other houses shall be added, says the LORD.
AMO 4:1 Hear this word, O heifers of the land of Bashan in the mountain of Samaria, the ones tyrannizing over the poor, and trampling upon the needy; the ones saying to their masters, Give over to us so that we should drink!
AMO 4:2 The LORD swears an oath according to his holy things, that behold, days come upon you when they shall take you with weapons, and the ones with you they shall put into kettles being fired up with pestilent fires.
AMO 4:3 And you shall be brought forth naked in front of one another. And you shall be thrown onto mount Renmon, says the LORD.
AMO 4:4 You entered into Beth-el, and were impious; and in Gilgal you multiplied to be impious; and you brought in the morning of your sacrifice offerings in the third day of your tithes.
AMO 4:5 And they read outside the law, and called for an acknowledgment offering. Announce that the sons of Israel loved these things, says the LORD!
AMO 4:6 And I will give to you an ache of teeth among all your cities, and lack of breads in all your places. And you returned not to me, says the LORD.
AMO 4:7 And I withheld from you the rain before the three months of the gathering of crops. And I shall rain upon one city, but upon one other city I will not rain; one portion there shall be rain, and the portion upon which I will not rain shall be dry.
AMO 4:8 And the inhabitants of two or three cities shall be gathered together to one city, to drink water; and in no way shall they be filled up. And you returned not to me, says the LORD.
AMO 4:9 I struck you with burning fire and with jaundice. You multiplied your gardens. Your vineyards, and your fig groves, and your olive groves - the caterpillar devoured them. And neither thus you returned to me, says the LORD.
AMO 4:10 I sent to you plague in the way of Egypt. I killed your young men by the broadsword, with a captivity of your horses; and I led your camps by fire in your anger. And neither thus you returned to me, says the LORD.
AMO 4:11 I eradicated you as God eradicated Sodom and Gomorrah, and you became as a firebrand being pulled out from burning. And neither thus you returned to me, says the LORD.
AMO 4:12 On account of this, thus I will do to you, O Israel. Furthermore that thus I will do to you, you prepare to call upon your God, O Israel!
AMO 4:13 For behold, the one stiffening thunder, and creating wind, and reporting unto men his graciousness, producing the dawn and fog, and mounting upon the heights of the earth - the LORD God almighty is his name.
AMO 5:1 Hear the word of the LORD which I take up against you - a lamentation! The house of Israel fell - no longer should it proceed to rise.
AMO 5:2 Virgin Israel tripped upon its land - there is not a raising her up.
AMO 5:3 For thus says the LORD God, The city from out of which went a thousand, shall be left with a hundred; and from out of which went forth a hundred, shall be left ten to the house of Israel.
AMO 5:4 For thus says the LORD to the house of Israel, Inquire of me, and you shall live!
AMO 5:5 And do not seek after Beth-el, and into Gilgal enter not, and by Well of the Oath do not pass over! For Gilgal, by capturing shall be captured, and Beth-el will be as not existing.
AMO 5:6 Inquire of the LORD, and live! so that the house of Joseph should not blaze up as fire, and it should devour him, and there shall not be the one extinguishing to the house of Israel.
AMO 5:7 The one appointing judgment in the height, even established righteousness for the earth;
AMO 5:8 the one making all things, and fashioning them differently, and turning the shadow into the morning, and darkening day into night; the one calling on the water of the sea, and pouring it upon the face of the earth - the LORD God almighty is his name.
AMO 5:9 The one dividing conflict into strength, and the one bringing misery upon the fortress.
AMO 5:10 They detested the one reproving at the gates, and they abhorred the sacred word.
AMO 5:11 Because of this - because they struck the poor with their fist, and they took choice gifts from them. You built planed houses, and in no way shall you dwell in them. You planted desirable vineyards, and in no way should you drink of their wine.
AMO 5:12 For I knew many impious deeds of yours, and your mighty sins - trampling the just one, taking prices, and turning aside the needy at the gates.
AMO 5:13 Because of this, the one perceiving in that time shall keep silent, for the time is evil.
AMO 5:14 Inquire of the good, and not the wicked, so that you should live! And it will be thus - the LORD God almighty with you in which manner you spoke, saying,
AMO 5:15 We have detested the evil things, and we loved the good things. Then restore judgment in the gates, so that the LORD God almighty should show mercy on the residue of Joseph!
AMO 5:16 On account of this, thus says the LORD God almighty, In all squares shall be a beating of the breast; and in all ways it shall be said, Woe, woe. The farmer shall be called unto mourning, and for beating of the breast, and for knowing wailing.
AMO 5:17 Even in all the ways a beating of the breast. For I shall go through your midst, said the LORD.
AMO 5:18 Woe, O ones desiring the day of the LORD, saying, What is this, the day of the LORD to us? Even this is darkness and not light.
AMO 5:19 It will be in which manner if a man should flee from the face of a lion, and a bear should fall to him; and he should rush into his house, and should fasten his hands upon the wall, and a serpent should bite it.
AMO 5:20 Is not darkness the day of the LORD, and not light; and dimness, not having brightness in it?
AMO 5:21 I have detested; I have thrust away your holiday feasts, and in no way shall I savor in your festivals.
AMO 5:22 For if you should bring to me whole burnt offerings, and your sacrifice offerings, I will not favorably receive them. And I will not look upon the grandeur of your deliverance offering.
AMO 5:23 Remove from me the sound of your odes! And I will not hear the psalm of your instruments.
AMO 5:24 And judgment shall roll down as water, and righteousness as an impassable rushing stream.
AMO 5:25 Did you bring near to me victims for slaughter and sacrifices, O house of Israel, for forty years in the wilderness?
AMO 5:26 And you took up the tent of Molech, and the star of your god, Raiphan - the impressions of them which you made for yourselves.
AMO 5:27 And I will displace you beyond Damascus, says the LORD - God almighty is the name to him.
AMO 6:1 Woe to the ones treating Zion with contempt, and to the ones yielding upon the mountain of Samaria; they harvested the heads of nations, and the house of Israel entered themselves.
AMO 6:2 Pass over all and behold, and go through from there into Hamath Rabba! And go down to Gath of the Philistines! Are you the most excellent out of these kingdoms? Are your borders greater than their borders?
AMO 6:3 The ones coming unto an evil day; the ones approaching and attaching to false sabbaths;
AMO 6:4 the ones sleeping upon beds of ivory; and living wastefully upon their strewn beds; and eating kids of the flocks, and young calves of the midst of the herds - sucklings;
AMO 6:5 the ones clapping along with the sound of instruments - as they considered being established and not as fleeting;
AMO 6:6 the ones drinking wine being strained, and anointing themselves with the foremost perfumes. And they suffered not anything over the destruction of Joseph.
AMO 6:7 On account of this, now they will be captives by a company of mighty ones; and there shall be lifted away the snorting of horses from Ephraim.
AMO 6:8 For the LORD swore an oath according to himself, saying, For I abhor every insult of Jacob, and I have detested his places, and I will lift away his city with all the ones in her.
AMO 6:9 And it will be if there should be left behind ten men in one house, even they shall die.
AMO 6:10 And their family members shall be left behind, and should they press to bring forth their bones from out of the house; then one shall say to the ones set over the house, Is there still any existing with you? And he shall say, No longer. And the other shall say, Quiet, so as not to name the name of the LORD!
AMO 6:11 For behold, the LORD gives charge, and he shall strike the great house with fractures, and the small house with torn pieces.
AMO 6:12 Shall horses pursue in the rocks? Shall they remain silent around females? For you distorted judgment into rage, and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness;
AMO 6:13 the ones being glad over no one good word; the ones saying, Was it not in our strength we had horns?
AMO 6:14 For behold, I will rouse against you, O house of Israel, a nation. And they shall squeeze you to not enter into Hamath, and unto the rushing stream of the west.
AMO 7:1 Thus the LORD God showed to me; and behold, a breed of locusts coming in early morning; and behold, one grasshopper - Gog the king.
AMO 7:2 And it shall be when the devouring the grass of the land should be completed, that I said, O LORD, be kind! Who shall raise up Jacob, for he is very few?
AMO 7:3 Change your mind, O LORD, over this! And this shall not be, says the LORD.
AMO 7:4 Thus the LORD showed to me. And behold, the LORD called punishment by fire, and it devoured the great abyss, and it devoured the portion.
AMO 7:5 And I said, O LORD God, abate indeed! Who shall raise up Jacob, for he is very few? Change your mind, O LORD, over this!
AMO 7:6 And this in no way should be, says the LORD.
AMO 7:7 Thus the LORD showed to me. And behold, the Lord was standing upon a wall of adamantine, and in his hand was adamant.
AMO 7:8 And the LORD said to me, What do you see, Amos? And I said, Adamant. And the Lord said to me, Behold, I arrange an adamant in the midst of my people Israel. No longer shall I proceed to go by it.
AMO 7:9 And the shrines of laughter shall be obliterated, and the sites of the mystic rites of Israel shall be made desolate. And I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with a broadsword.
AMO 7:10 And Amaziah the priest sent out of Beth-el to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos makes a confederacy against you in the midst of the house of Israel. In no way will the land be able to endure all his words.
AMO 7:11 For thus says Amos, By the broadsword Jeroboam shall come to an end, and Israel shall be led captive from his land.
AMO 7:12 And Amaziah said to Amos, the one seeing, Proceed! You withdraw into the land of Judah, and there spend your life, and there you shall prophesy!
AMO 7:13 But in Beth-el no longer shall you proceed to prophesy, for it is a sanctuary of the king, and it is a house of royalty.
AMO 7:14 And Amos answered, and said to Amaziah, I was not a prophet, nor a son of a prophet; but I was a herder, one plucking fruit of the mulberry-tree.
AMO 7:15 And the LORD took me from the sheep, and the LORD said to me, Proceed and prophesy over my people Israel!
AMO 7:16 And now, hear the word of the LORD! You say, Prophesy not over Israel, for in no way should you lead a mob against the house of Jacob!
AMO 7:17 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Your wife shall commit harlotry in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the broadsword, and your land shall be measured out by a measuring line; and you shall come to an end in an unclean land; and Israel shall be led captive from his land.
AMO 8:1 Thus the LORD showed to me. And behold, a container of a fowler.
AMO 8:2 And the LORD said, What do you see, Amos? And I said, A container of a fowler. And the LORD said to me, The end is come for my people Israel; I shall not proceed any longer to pass by them.
AMO 8:3 And the fretworks of the temple shall shriek in that day, says the LORD - many falling; in every place I will cast a silence.
AMO 8:4 Hear indeed these things, O ones obliterating the needy, and tyrannizing the poor of the land!
AMO 8:5 Saying, When shall the month go by that we shall make trade? and the sabbaths go by that we shall open the treasury to make the measure small, and to unequally magnify the scale-weight, and to make the yoke balance scale unjust,
AMO 8:6 to acquire the poor by silver, and the needy in return for sandals, and of every business we shall trade?
AMO 8:7 The LORD swears an oath according to the pride of Jacob, Shall there be forgotten for victory any of their works?
AMO 8:8 And concerning these things, shall the land not be disturbed, and every one dwelling in it shall mourn? And the consumption shall ascend as a river, and shall go down as the river of Egypt.
AMO 8:9 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, the sun shall go down at midday, and the light shall darken upon the earth during the day.
AMO 8:10 And I will convert your holiday feasts into mourning, and all your songs into wailing; and I will bring sackcloth upon every loin, and upon every head baldness; and I will appoint him as one mourning a beloved one, and the ones with him as a day of grief.
AMO 8:11 Behold days come, says the LORD, and I will send out famine upon the land, not a famine of breads, nor famine of water, but a famine to hear the word of the LORD.
AMO 8:12 And waters shall shake from the sea unto sea, and from north unto east; ones shall run about seeking the word of the LORD, and in no way should they find.
AMO 8:13 In that day the fair virgins and the young men will dissipate by thirst.
AMO 8:14 The ones swearing an oath according to the atonement of Samaria, and ones saying, Your God lives, O Dan; and, Your God, O Beer-sheba; even they shall fall and in no way should they rise up again.
AMO 9:1 I saw the LORD standing at the altar. And he said, Strike upon the atonement-seat, and the gateways shall be shaken! And cut unto the heads of all! And the ones remaining of them I will kill by the broadsword. In no way should one evade from them by fleeing, and in no way shall there be preserved one of them by rescuing.
AMO 9:2 If they should be buried in Hades, from there my hand shall pull them up; and if they should ascend into the heaven, from there I will lead them down;
AMO 9:3 if they should hide in the top of Carmel, from there I will search out and take them; and if they should descend from out of my eyes into the depths of the sea, there I will give charge to the dragon, and it will bite them;
AMO 9:4 and if they should go into captivity in front of their enemies, there I will give charge to the broadsword, and it shall kill them. And I will firmly fix my eyes against them for bad, and not for good.
AMO 9:5 And the LORD God almighty is the one attaching the earth and shaking it; and all the ones dwelling it shall mourn. And it shall ascend as the river of Egypt.
AMO 9:6 The one building his ascent into the heaven, and the one founding his promise upon the earth; the one calling on the water of the sea, and pouring it upon the face of the earth - the LORD is his name.
AMO 9:7 Are you not as sons of Ethiopians to me, O sons of Israel, says the LORD? Did I not lead Israel from out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from out of Cappadocia, and the Syrians from out of the pit?
AMO 9:8 Behold, the eyes of the LORD God are upon the kingdom of the sinners, and I will lift it from the face of the earth. Only that not unto completion will I remove the house of Jacob, says the LORD.
AMO 9:9 For behold, I give charge, and I shall winnow among all the nations the house of Israel, in which manner grain is winnowed by the winnowing shovel, and in no way shall there fall a broken piece upon the earth.
AMO 9:10 By broadsword all the sinners of my people shall come to an end, the ones saying, In no way shall the evils approach nor come upon us.
AMO 9:11 In that day I will raise up the tent of David having fallen. And I will rebuild its fallen things. And the things having been razed of it, I will raise up, and I will rebuild it as the days of the eon;
AMO 9:12 so that the ones remaining of the men should inquire, and all the nations, upon whom my name was called upon by them, says the LORD, the one doing these things.
AMO 9:13 Behold, days come, says the LORD, and the threshing shall overtake the gathering of crops; and the grape shall grow dark in the sowing; and sweetness shall trickle down the mountains; and all the hills shall be planted together.
AMO 9:14 And I will return the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the cities having been obliterated, and shall inhabit them. And they shall plant vineyards, and shall drink their wine, and shall make gardens, and shall eat of their fruit.
AMO 9:15 And I will plant them upon their land, and in no way shall they be pulled out any longer from their land of which I gave to them, says the LORD God.
OBA 1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Thus says the LORD God to Edom; I heard a report from the LORD, and a summary he sent out unto the nations, saying, Rise up, even we should rise up against her for battle!
OBA 1:2 Behold, I have made you very few among the nations, disgracing you exceedingly.
OBA 1:3 Pride of your heart lifted you up, encamping in the openings of the rocks, exalting his dwelling, saying in his heart, Who shall lead me down unto the ground?
OBA 1:4 If you should rise up on high as an eagle, and if in the midst of the stars you should put your nest, from there I will lead you down, says the LORD.
OBA 1:5 If thieves entered to you, or robbers by night, (how ever you were reeled,) would not they have stolen the things fit for themselves? And if grape gatherers entered to you, would not they have left behind a gleaning?
OBA 1:6 O how was Esau searched out, and his hidden things forsaken.
OBA 1:7 Unto the borders they sent you; all the men of your covenant opposed you; they prevailed against you; peaceable men with you put an ambush underneath you; there is not an understanding in them.
OBA 1:8 In that day, says the LORD, I will destroy the wise ones from out of Edom, and understanding from the mount of Esau.
OBA 1:9 And your warriors shall be terrified, (the ones from Teman,) so that man shall be removed from the mountain of Esau.
OBA 1:10 Because of the slaughter and the impiety against your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be removed into the eon.
OBA 1:11 From which day you opposed right opposite, in the day of the capturing by foreigners of his force, and strangers entered into his gates, and over Jerusalem they cast lots, even you were as one of them.
OBA 1:12 And you should not have looked upon the day of your brother in the day of strangers; and you should not have rejoiced over the sons of Judah in the day of their destruction; and you should not have spoken great words in the day of their affliction;
OBA 1:13 nor should you have entered into the gates of peoples in the day of their miseries; and you should not have looked, even you, upon their gathering in the day of their ruin; and you should not have joined in an attack upon their force in the day of their destruction;
OBA 1:14 3366 mhd\'enor should you have stood upon their mountain passes to utterly destroy the ones escaping of them; nor should you have closed up the ones fleeing from them in the day of their affliction.
OBA 1:15 For the day of the LORD is near upon all the nations. In which manner you did, so it will be to you. Your recompense shall be recompensed unto your head.
OBA 1:16 For in which manner you drank upon my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink wine; they shall drink, and they shall swallow down, and they shall be as not having existed.
OBA 1:17 But on mount Zion there will be deliverance, and there will be a holy place. And the house of Jacob shall inherit the ones inheriting them.
OBA 1:18 2532 kaiAnd the house of Jacob will be fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, but the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall be burnt in them, and they shall devour them; and there will not be a bearing wheat to the house of Esau; for the LORD spoke.
OBA 1:19 And the ones in the Negev shall inherit the mountain of Esau, and the ones dwelling in the Sephela of the Philistines; and they shall inherit the mountain of Ephraim, and the plain of Samaria, and Benjamin, and the land of Gilead.
OBA 1:20 And the displacement of this company to the sons of Israel shall inherit that of the Canaanites, unto Zarephath; and the displacement of Jerusalem unto Ephratah shall inherit the cities of the Negev.
OBA 1:21 2532 kaiAnd the ones being rescued shall ascend from mount Zion to take vengeance on the mountain of Esau; and the kingdom will be to the LORD.
JON 1:1 And the word of the LORD came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
JON 1:2 Rise up and go unto Nineveh the great city, and proclaim in it! for the cry of its evils ascended to me.
JON 1:3 And Jonah rose up to flee into Tarshish from the face of the LORD, and went down into Joppa; and he found a boat proceeding to Tarshish. And he gave his fare, and ascended into it to sail with them unto Tarshish from the face of the LORD.
JON 1:4 And the LORD raised a wind upon the sea, and there became a great swell in the sea, and the boat was exposed to danger of breaking up.
JON 1:5 And the mariners feared, and yelled out each to his god, and made an expulsion of the items in the boat into the sea, to lighten of them. But Jonah went down into the hold of the boat; and he went to sleep and snored.
JON 1:6 And the captain drew near to him, and said to him, Why do you snore? Rise up, call upon your God, that God should preserve us, and in no way we should be destroyed!
JON 1:7 And each said to his neighbor, Come, we should cast lots, and we shall know for what reason this evil is to us. And they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah.
JON 1:8 And they said to him, Report indeed! What reason is this evil to us? What is your work? And from where have you come? And from out of what kind of place, and of what kind of people are you?
JON 1:9 And he said to them, I am a servant of the LORD, and I worship the God of the heaven who made the sea and the dry land.
JON 1:10 And the men feared a great fear, and said to him, What is this you did? For the men knew that he was fleeing from the face of the LORD, for he reported it to them.
JON 1:11 And they said to him, What should we do to you, that the sea abates from us? For the sea went forth, and raised a rather great swell.
JON 1:12 And Jonah said to them, Lift me, and cast me into the sea, and the sea shall abate from you! For I know that on account of me this great swell is upon you.
JON 1:13 And the men pressed on to turn towards the land, and they were not able, for the sea went, and it rose up rather upon them.
JON 1:14 And they yelled out to the LORD, and said, By no means, O LORD, should you destroy us because of the soul of this man, and the blood of the just one should not be imputed against us. For you, O LORD, in which manner you want, you do.
JON 1:15 And they took Jonah, and cast him into the sea. And the sea stood from its tossing about.
JON 1:16 And the men feared a great fear of the LORD, and they sacrificed a sacrifice to the LORD, and vowed the vows.
JON 1:17 And the LORD assigned a great sea monster to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the sea monster three days and three nights.
JON 2:1 And Jonah prayed to the LORD his God from out of the belly of the sea monster.
JON 2:2 And he said, I yelled in my affliction to the LORD my God, and he hearkened to me. From out of the belly of Hades was my cry - you heard my voice.
JON 2:3 You threw me into the depths of the heart of the sea, and rivers encircled me. All your crests and your waves went upon me.
JON 2:4 And I said, Have I been thrust away from your eyes? Surely I shall proceed to look towards your holy temple.
JON 2:5 Water was poured about me unto the soul. The deep encircled me to the extreme. My head went down.
JON 2:6 Into the fissures of mountains I went down; into the earth of which its bars are the eternal holds. Yet let my life ascend from corruption, O LORD my God!
JON 2:7 In the faltering of my soul from me I remembered the LORD. And may my prayer come to you in your holy temple.
JON 2:8 The ones watching vanities and lies abandoned their mercy.
JON 2:9 But I with the voice of praise and acknowledgment will sacrifice to you. As much as I vowed I will render to you. For my deliverance is by the LORD.
JON 2:10 And it was assigned from the LORD to the sea monster, and it cast out Jonah upon the dry land.
JON 3:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Jonah the second time, saying,
JON 3:2 Rise up, go unto Nineveh the great city, and proclaim in it according to the proclamation which I spoke to you before!
JON 3:3 And Jonah rose up, and went into Nineveh, as the LORD spoke. And Nineveh was a great city to God, as the goings of a journey of three days.
JON 3:4 And Jonah began to enter into the city, as the going of one day. And he proclaimed, and said, Yet three days, and Nineveh shall be eradicated.
JON 3:5 And the men of Nineveh believed in God, and they proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloths, from their great unto their small.
JON 3:6 And the word approached to the king of Nineveh, and he rose up from his throne, and removed his apparel from himself, and wore sackcloth, and sat upon ashes.
JON 3:7 And it was proclaimed and was spoken in Nineveh by the king, and by his great men, saying, The men, and the cattle, and the oxen, and the sheep - let them not taste, nor feed, and let them not drink water!
JON 3:8 And the men and the cattle put around sackcloths, and yelled out to God fervently. And each turned from their wicked way, and from the iniquity in their hands, saying,
JON 3:9 Who knows if God shall change his mind, and shall turn from the anger of his rage, and in no way should we perish?
JON 3:10 And God saw their works, that they turned from their wicked ways. And God changed his mind over the evil which he spoke to do to them; and he did not do it.
JON 4:1 And Jonah was grieved with great distress, and was confounded.
JON 4:2 And he prayed to the LORD, and said, O LORD, were not these my words still being in my land? Because of this I thought beforehand to flee unto Tarshish; for I knew that you are merciful and pitying, lenient and full of mercy, and one to change his mind over the evils.
JON 4:3 And now, master, O LORD, take my soul from me, for it is good for me to die than live!
JON 4:4 And the LORD said, Are you exceedingly grieved?
JON 4:5 And Jonah went forth from out of the city, and sat before the city. and made to himself there a tent, and sat down underneath it, unto of which he could look over what will be to the city.
JON 4:6 And the LORD God assigned a gourd, and it ascended above the head of Jonah, to be shading up above his head, to shade him from his hurts. And Jonah rejoiced over the gourd with great joy.
JON 4:7 And God assigned a worm for early morning the next day, and it struck the gourd, and it was dried up.
JON 4:8 And it came to pass at the same time as the rising of the sun, and God assigned a burning wind to burn. And the sun struck upon the head of Jonah, and he became faint-hearted, and resigned of his life, and said, Better for me to die than live.
JON 4:9 And God said to Jonah, Are you exceedingly grieved over the gourd? And he said, I am exceedingly grieved unto death.
JON 4:10 And the LORD said, You indeed spared for the gourd, for which you suffered not hardship over it, nor nourished it; which came up during the night, and perished during the night.
JON 4:11 But I, shall I not spare for Nineveh, the great city, in which dwells in it more than twelve myriads of men, (who do not know their right or their left;) and much cattle?
MIC 1:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Micah the one of the Morasthite, in the days of Jotham, and Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, over what he saw concerning Samaria and concerning Jerusalem.
MIC 1:2 Hear, O peoples, all the words! And take heed, O earth, and all the ones in it! Even the LORD God will be among you for a testimony - the LORD from out of his holy house.
MIC 1:3 For behold, the LORD goes forth from out of his place, and will go down, and will mount upon the heights of the earth.
MIC 1:4 And the mountains shall be shaken from beneath him, and the valleys shall melt away as beeswax from in front of fire, and as water being carried down in a descent.
MIC 1:5 All these things are on account of the impiety of Jacob, and because of the sin of the house of Israel. What is the impiety of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the sin of the house of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?
MIC 1:6 And I will make Samaria for a vacant storehouse of fruits of the field, and for planting a vineyard. And I will tear down in chaos her stones, and her foundations I will uncover.
MIC 1:7 And all her carved images I will cut in pieces, and all her hires shall burn in fire, and all her idols I shall establish for extinction. For she gathered together of the hires of harlotry, and of the hires of harlotry he eradicated.
MIC 1:8 Because of this she shall beat her chest and wail. She shall go barefoot and naked. She shall make a beating of the breast as dragons, and mourning as the daughters of sirens.
MIC 1:9 For her calamity holds firmly; for it went unto Judah, and it touched unto the gate of my people, unto Jerusalem.
MIC 1:10 O ones in Gath, do not magnify yourselves! And, O ones in Baceim, do not rebuild of your house with laughter! Strew earth on your laughter!
MIC 1:11 Her inhabiting well her cities did not come forth. Her inhabiting Zaanan beat her chest for the house next to her; she shall receive from your calamity of grief.
MIC 1:12 Who began to act for good to her dwelling in griefs? for bad things came down from the LORD upon the gates of Jerusalem;
MIC 1:13 even noise of chariots and ones riding. Dwelling Lachish is the head of sin to the daughter of Zion; for in you they found the impious deeds of Israel.
MIC 1:14 On account of this he shall grant ones to be sent forth unto the inheritance of Gath, the vain houses; for they became vanity to the kings of Israel;
MIC 1:15 until they should bring the heirs to you, O inhabitant of Lachish, your inheritance. Unto Adullam glory of the daughter of Israel shall come.
MIC 1:16 Shave and shear for your delightful children, widening your shavingbaldness. as an eagle, for they were taken captive from you.
MIC 2:1 They came devising troubles, and working evils on their beds, and together during the day they complete them, for they lifted not their hands to God.
MIC 2:2 And they desired fields, and they plundered orphans, and tyrannized households, and plundered a man and his house, a man and his inheritance.
MIC 2:3 On account of this, thus says the LORD, Behold, I devise against this tribe bad things, of which in no way should you lift your necks, and in no way should you be able to go straight; for it is a wicked time.
MIC 2:4 In that day there shall be taken up against you a parable, and a lament shall be wailed in a strain, saying, With misery we were miserable. The portion of my people was measured out with a measuring line, and there was not a restraining him to return - your fields were divided.
MIC 2:5 On account of this, there will not be to you one putting a measuring line for the lot in the assembly of the LORD.
MIC 2:6 Weep not tears, nor burst into tears over these things! For he will not thrust away the scorn.
MIC 2:7 The one saying, The house of Jacob provoked to anger the spirit of the LORD; are these his practices? are not his words good with him, and straight going?
MIC 2:8 And in former times my people opposed for enmity against his peace; his skin they flayed to remove hope of the conflict of war.
MIC 2:9 The ones leading my people shall be thrown from out of the houses of their luxury; because of their wicked practices they were pushed out. Approach to everlasting mountains!
MIC 2:10 Rise up, and go! For there is not to you this rest. Because of uncleanness you were corrupted by corruption.
MIC 2:11 You were pursued by no one pursuing. Your spirit established lying; it trickled you with wine and for strong drink; and it will be from the drop of this people.
MIC 2:12 In being gathered, Jacob shall be brought together with all. In looking out I shall look out for the remnants of Israel; together I will establish their return as sheep in affliction. As a flock in the midst of their fold, they leap out because of men.
MIC 2:13 Ascend through the breach before in front of them! They cut through, and went through the gate, and came forth through it. And their king went forth before in front of them; and the LORD shall lead them.
MIC 3:1 And he shall say, Hear indeed, O heads of Jacob, and O remnants of the house of Israel! Is it not to you to know equity?
MIC 3:2 O ones detesting the good things, and seeking the wicked things; seizing by force their skins from them, and their flesh from their bones;
MIC 3:3 in which manner they devoured the flesh of my people, and their skins they flayed from them, and their bones they fractured in pieces as flesh for the kettle, and as meats for the pot.
MIC 3:4 Thus they shall cry out to the LORD, and he will not listen to them. And he shall turn his face from them in that time, because they were wicked in their practices.
MIC 3:5 Thus says the LORD concerning the prophets misleading my people; the ones biting with their teeth, and proclaiming peace upon them, and it was not put into their mouth - they even sanctified a war against them.
MIC 3:6 On account of this there shall be night to you instead of a vision; and darkness will be to you for divination; and the sun shall go down upon the prophets, and the day shall darken upon them.
MIC 3:7 And the ones seeing the dreams shall be disgraced, and the clairvoyants shall be ridiculed. And all these shall speak ill against them; for there is not one heeding them.
MIC 3:8 Surely I shall fill up strength in spirit of the LORD, and judgment, and might, to report to Jacob of his impiety, and to Israel of his sins.
MIC 3:9 Hear indeed these things, O leaders of the house of Jacob, and, O remnants of the house of Israel, the ones abhorring equity, and all the ones perverting straight things;
MIC 3:10 the ones building Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with injustice!
MIC 3:11 Her leaders judge with bribes, and her priests answer with a wage, and her prophets are divining with silver; but upon the LORD they rest upon, saying, is not the LORD among us? In no way shall bad things come upon us.
MIC 3:12 On account of this, because of you Zion shall be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem will be as a vacant storehouse of fruits, and the mountain of the house as a place of the forest.
MIC 4:1 And at the last of the days the mountain of the LORD will be apparent, readied upon the tops of the mountains. And it shall rise up high above the hills, and peoples shall hasten to it.
MIC 4:2 And many nations shall go, and shall say, Come, we should ascend unto the mountain of the LORD, and unto the house of the God of Jacob; and they shall show us his way, and we shall go by his roads. For from out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the LORD from out of Jerusalem.
MIC 4:3 And he shall judge between many peoples, and shall completely refute strong nations unto afar. And they shall cut their broadswords into plows, and their spears into sickles. And no longer should a nation raise up a broadsword against a nation, and no longer should they learn to wage war.
MIC 4:4 And each shall rest underneath his grapevine, and each underneath his fig-tree; and there shall not be one frightening them. For the mouth of the LORD almighty spoke these things.
MIC 4:5 For all the peoples shall go each in his own way, but we shall go in the name of the LORD our God into the eon and beyond.
MIC 4:6 In that day, says the LORD, I will gather together her being broken, and her being thrust away. I will take in even whom I thrusted away.
MIC 4:7 And I will make her being broken into a vestige, and her being thrust away into a mighty nation. And the LORD shall reign over them on mount Zion from the present, and unto the eon.
MIC 4:8 And you, O tower of the flock, austere daughter of Zion, unto you he shall come, and he shall enter - even the head of the foremost kingdom of Babylon to the daughter of Jerusalem.
MIC 4:9 And now, why did you know bad things? was not a king in you? or has your counsel perished? for your pangs hold firmly as one giving birth.
MIC 4:10 Travail, and take courage, O daughter of Zion, as the one giving birth! For now you shall come forth from the city, and shall encamp in the plain, and shall come unto Babylon; from there he shall rescue you, and from there he shall ransom you - the LORD your God, from the hand of your enemies.
MIC 4:11 And now many nations were assembled against you, saying, our eyes shall rejoice and scrutinize over Zion.
MIC 4:12 But they knew not the devices of the LORD, and perceived not his counsel. For he gathered them as sheaves for the threshing-floor.
MIC 4:13 Rise up and thresh them, O daughter of Zion! For I will make your horns iron, and your hoofs I will make brass, and I will dissolve many peoples. And you shall present to the LORD their abundance, even their strength to the LORD of all the earth.
MIC 5:1 Now the daughter shall be obstructed by an obstruction. He ordered conflict for us. They shall strike with a rod upon the jaw the tribes of Israel.
MIC 5:2 And you, Beth-lehem, of the house of Ephratah, are very few being among thousands of Judah; from out of you to me shall come forth the one being for ruler of Israel. And his exitings were from the beginning - from eon of days.
MIC 5:3 On account of this, he will appoint them unto a time of giving birth. She shall give birth, and the rest of the ones of their brothers shall return unto the sons of Israel.
MIC 5:4 And he shall stand and tend in strength of the LORD. And in the glory of the name of the LORD their God they shall exist; for now he shall be magnified unto the uttermost parts of earth.
MIC 5:5 And this shall be the peace - whenever the Assyrian should come upon our land, and whenever he should mount upon our place. And there shall be roused up against him seven shepherds, and eight strikes of men.
MIC 5:6 And they shall tend Assyria with a broadsword, and the land of Nimrod at her trench. And he shall rescue from Assyria whenever it should come against your land, and whenever it should mount over your borders.
MIC 5:7 And the vestige of Jacob will be in the midst of many peoples as the dew from the LORD falling, and as lambs upon wild grass, so that it should be gathered to no one, nor should stand among the sons of men.
MIC 5:8 And the vestige of Jacob will be among the nations in the midst of many peoples as a lion among cattle in the forest, and as a cub among the flocks of sheep - in which manner whenever he should go through and draw apart to seize his prey by force, and there should be none rescuing.
MIC 5:9 Your hand shall be raised up high against the ones afflicting you, and all your enemies shall be utterly destroyed.
MIC 5:10 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, I will utterly destroy your horses from out of your midst, and I will destroy your chariots.
MIC 5:11 And I will utterly destroy the cities of your land. And I will remove all your fortresses.
MIC 5:12 And I will utterly destroy your potions from out of your hands; and ones declaring fortunes shall not be to you.
MIC 5:13 And I will utterly destroy your carved images, and your monuments from out of your midst; and no longer should you do obeisance to the works of your hands.
MIC 5:14 And I will cut your sacred groves from out of your midst. And I will obliterate your cities.
MIC 5:15 And I will execute in anger and in rage vengeance among the nations, because they listened not.
MIC 6:1 Hear indeed what the LORD said! Rise up, plead with the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice!
MIC 6:2 Hear, O mountains, the judgment of the LORD, and O ravines, foundations of the earth! For there is a case with the LORD against his people. And with Israel he will plead.
MIC 6:3 O my people, what did I to you, or how did I trouble you? answer to me!
MIC 6:4 For I led you from out of the land of Egypt; and from out of the house of slavery I ransomed you. And I sent out before your face Moses and Aaron and Miriam.
MIC 6:5 O my people, remember indeed what Balak king of Moab planned against you, and what Balaam son of Beor answered to him from the rushes unto Gilgal; so that the righteousness of the LORD should be known!
MIC 6:6 By what means should I overtake the LORD? Shall I take hold of my God the highest? Shall I overtake him with a whole burnt offering, with calves of a year old?
MIC 6:7 Shall the LORD favorably receive a thousand rams, or myriads of hearty winter yearlings? Shall I give my first-born for my sin offering - the fruit of my belly for impiety of my soul?
MIC 6:8 He explained to you, O man, what is good or what the LORD requires from you; but only to execute equity, and to love mercy, and to be prepared to go with your God.
MIC 6:9 The voice of the LORD shall be called upon in the city, and he shall deliver ones fearing his name. Hear, O tribe! And who shall adorn the city?
MIC 6:10 Is there not fire, and the house of the lawless one treasuring up treasures of lawless deeds, and with unrighteous insolence?
MIC 6:11 Shall the lawless one be justified by a yoke balance scale, or by a bag of deceitful weights,
MIC 6:12 of which they filled their riches of impiety, and the ones dwelling it spoke lies, and their tongue was exalted in their mouth?
MIC 6:13 And I tormented you for extinction on account of your sins.
MIC 6:14 You shall eat, and in no way be filled up. And I shall banish you to yourself, and you shall be forsaken, and in no way should you be preserved; and as many as should be preserved shall be delivered up unto the broadsword.
MIC 6:15 You shall sow, but you shall not reap; you shall compress the olive, but in no way should you anoint with olive oil; and wine, and in no way shall you drink; and the laws of my people shall be obliterated.
MIC 6:16 And you kept the ordinances of Omri, and all the works of the house of Ahab, And you went by their plans, so that I should deliver you unto extinction, and the ones dwelling her for a hissing; and you shall receive scorn of peoples.
MIC 7:1 Alas, for I became as one gathering stubble in a harvest, and as one gathering grape gleanings while not existing a cluster of first-ripe grapes to eat, which my soul longs after. Woe O soul.
MIC 7:2 For the reverent one is destroyed from the earth; and one keeping straight among men exists not. All adjudicate unto blood; each by squeezing out squeezes out his neighbor.
MIC 7:3 They prepare their hands for evil. The ruler asks for gifts, and the judge speaks peaceable words for bribes. It is the wish of his soul.
MIC 7:4 And I will take out their good things, as a moth chews away, and one proceeding by the rule in the day of the watch. Woe, your punishments came; now there shall be their weepings.
MIC 7:5 Do not confide in friends; do not hope upon leaders; of your bed-mate watch out to not present anything to her.
MIC 7:6 For a son dishonors a father, a daughter rises up against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; enemies are all the men in his own house.
MIC 7:7 But I will look upon my LORD; I will wait upon the LORD my deliverer. My God will listen to me.
MIC 7:8 Rejoice not against me, O my enemy! For I have fallen, and I will rise up. For if I shall sit in the darkness, the LORD will give light to me.
MIC 7:9 The anger of the LORD I shall endure, (for I sinned against him,) until his doing justice of my cause. And he shall execute my judgment. He shall lead me into the light. I shall see his righteousness.
MIC 7:10 And my enemy shall see and shall wear shame, saying to me, Where is the LORD your God? My eyes shall scrutinize her. Now she will be for trampling as mud in the ways.
MIC 7:11 A day of plastering of brick is your wiping out, and your laws shall be thrust away in that day.
MIC 7:12 And your cities shall come unto leveling, and into partition of Assyrians; and your fortified cities for a partition from Tyre unto the river, and from sea unto sea, and from mountain unto mountain.
MIC 7:13 And the land will be for extinction with the ones dwelling it, because of the fruits of their practices.
MIC 7:14 Tend your people with your rod - the sheep of your inheritance, the ones encamping by themselves in a forest, in the midst of Carmel! They shall feed Bashan, and Gilead, as the days of the eon.
MIC 7:15 And according to the days of your departure from the land of Egypt, I will show to them wonderful things.
MIC 7:16 Nations shall see and shall be disgraced - even of all their strength. They shall place hands over their mouth - their ears shall be deafened.
MIC 7:17 They shall lick dust as serpents dragging earth. They shall be confounded in their confinement. Over the LORD our God they shall be amazed, and shall fear from you.
MIC 7:18 What God is as you, removing iniquities and passing over impieties to the remnants of his inheritance? His anger is not constrained for a testimony, for he is a wisher of mercy.
MIC 7:19 He shall turn, and shall pity us. He shall sink our iniquities, and shall throw away into the depths of the sea all our sins.
MIC 7:20 He shall give for truth to Jacob, mercy to Abraham, in so far as you swore an oath to our fathers according to the former days.
NAH 1:1 The concern for Nineveh. The scroll of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
NAH 1:2 God is jealous, and the LORD is punishing. The LORD is punishing with rage. The LORD is punishing his adversaries, and lifting away himself of his enemies.
NAH 1:3 The LORD is lenient, and great is his strength; and the LORD will not acquit one as innocent. His way is by consummation and by a rumbling, and the clouds are the dust of his feet;
NAH 1:4 the one pressing together the sea, and drying it, and making quite desolate all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel are lessened, and the blossoming of Lebanon failed.
NAH 1:5 The mountains shake from him, and the hills are shaken. And the earth rises upwards at his presence - the whole, and all the ones dwelling in it.
NAH 1:6 From in front of his anger who shall stand? and who shall withstand in the anger of his rage? His rage melts away sovereignties, and the rocks are broken because of him.
NAH 1:7 Gracious is the LORD to the ones waiting on him in a day of affliction; and he is knowing of the ones venerating him.
NAH 1:8 And by a flood coursing he shall execute a consummation of the ones rousing up. And darkness shall pursue his enemies.
NAH 1:9 What do you devise against the LORD? he himself will make a consummation. He will not punish twice for the same thing with affliction.
NAH 1:10 For the enemy will be made barren unto his foundation, and as a yew tree being twisted he shall be devoured; and as stubble he shall be dried up full.
NAH 1:11 From out of you shall come forth a device against the LORD, planning wicked things adverse to him.
NAH 1:12 Thus says the LORD who rules many waters; And so they shall be drawn apart, and the report of you shall not be listened to attentively any longer.
NAH 1:13 And now I will break his rod from you, and the bonds I will tear up.
NAH 1:14 And the LORD shall give charge concerning you, saying, There shall not be sown the report of your name any longer from out of the house of your god. I will utterly destroy the carved images, and the molten images. I will establish for your burial, and that quickly.
NAH 1:15 Behold upon the mountains the feet announcing good news, and reporting peace. Solemnize, O Judah, your holidays! Render your vows! For in no way should they proceed any longer to go through you, for they should have grown old.
NAH 2:1 He is finished, he is consumed, the one being lifted away from out of affliction ascended breathing in your face. Watch the way! Hold the loin! Be very manly in strength!
NAH 2:2 For the LORD perverted the insolence of Jacob, as the insolence of Israel. For the ones shaking off shook them off, and ruined their vine branches.
NAH 2:3 The weapons of his command of men are mighty men mocking with fire. The reins of their chariots in the day of his preparation, and the horsemen shall be making a disruption.
NAH 2:4 In the ways the chariots shall be in tumult, and shall be closely joined in the squares. The sight of them is as lamps of fire, and as lightnings running across.
NAH 2:5 And their great men shall be remembering, and shall flee by day. And they shall be weak in their goings. And they shall hasten unto the walls, and shall prepare their advance guards.
NAH 2:6 Gates of the cities were opened wide, and the palaces fell into ruin.
NAH 2:7 And the support was uncovered, and she ascended. And her maidservants were led away as doves, uttering sounds in their hearts.
NAH 2:8 And Nineveh - her waters are as a pool of water. And they fleeing did not stand; and there was not a paying attention.
NAH 2:9 They plundered the silver. They plundered the gold. And there was not a limit to her decoration. They were weighed down by all her desirable items.
NAH 2:10 Thrusting, and violent shaking, and tumult, and heart breaking, and loosening of the knees, and pangs on every loin, and the face of all as a burning earthen pot.
NAH 2:11 Where is the home of the lions, and the pasture being to the cubs? Where did the lion go, for the lion cub to enter there, and there was not one frightening?
NAH 2:12 The lion seized by force the things fit for his cubs, and choked prey for his young lions, and filled his nest with game, and his home of things of seizure.
NAH 2:13 Behold, I am against you, says the LORD almighty. And I will burn away your multitude in smoke, and your lions I will devour by the broadsword. And I will utterly destroy your game from out of the land, and in no way should your works be heard of yet.
NAH 3:1 O city of blood, entirely false, full of iniquity - the game shall not be handled.
NAH 3:2 The sound of whips, and the sound of quaking of wheels, and the pursuing horse, and the chariot stirring up,
NAH 3:3 horseman ascending, and of the shining broadsword, and flashing shields, and the multitude of slain, and of a heavy downfall. And there was not a limit to her nations. And they shall be weak in their bodies from a multitude of harlotry -
NAH 3:4 a good harlot, and gratifying, taking the lead in potions; the one selling nations in her harlotry, and tribes with her potions.
NAH 3:5 Behold, I am against you, says the LORD almighty. And I will uncover your behind in your presence. And I will show the nations your shame, and to kingdoms your dishonor.
NAH 3:6 And I will cast upon you an abomination according to your uncleannesses. And I will make you for an example.
NAH 3:7 And it will be all the ones seeing you shall go from you, and shall say, Wretched Nineveh, who shall moan her? From what place shall I seek comfort to her?
NAH 3:8 Tune the string of the lyre! Prepare a portion for Amon, the one inhabiting in rivers! Water is round about her, whose rule is the sea, and her walls water.
NAH 3:9 Ethiopia is her strength, and Egypt - and there stood not a limit of your flight into exile; Put and Libya became her helpers.
NAH 3:10 And she shall go captive into displacement; and her infants they shall dash upon corners of all her ways; and over all her honorable things they shall cast lots; and all her great men shall be tied with manacles.
NAH 3:11 And you shall be intoxicated. And you shall be for overlooking. And you shall seek for yourself a position from enemies.
NAH 3:12 All your fortresses are as you - having fruits. If they should be shaken, they shall fall into the mouth of ones eating.
NAH 3:13 Behold, your people are as women among you to your enemies. By opening the gates of your land shall be open. Fire shall devour the bars of your gates.
NAH 3:14 Draw water to yourself for being encompassed about! Secure your fortresses! Step into the mortar, and trample it together with straw! Secure it more than with a brick!
NAH 3:15 There the fire shall devour you; the broadsword shall utterly destroy you; it shall devour you as a locust, and you shall be oppressed as a grasshopper.
NAH 3:16 You multiplied your trade above the stars of the heaven. The grasshopper advanced and spread forth.
NAH 3:17 Your consolidation leaped out as the small locust. As the locust mounted upon a fence on an icy day - the sun rises, and it hops; and it knows not its place - woe to them.
NAH 3:18 Your shepherds slumbered, O king of Assyria. Your mighty ones rested. Your people departed unto the mountains, and there was not one looking out for them.
NAH 3:19 There is not a healing to your destruction; your wound is inflamed. All the ones hearing the message of you clap hands over you. For upon whom did your evil not come upon continually?
HAB 1:1 The concern which Habakkuk the prophet saw.
HAB 1:2 For how long, O LORD, shall I cry out, and in no way should you listen? For how long shall I yell to you being wronged, and you should not deliver?
HAB 1:3 Why did you show to me toils and troubles, to look upon misery and impiety? Right opposite me takes place judgment, and the judge receives bribes.
HAB 1:4 On account of this the law is effaced, and judgment is not administered unto the end. For the impious one tyrannizes over the just one; because of this judgment shall go forth being perverted.
HAB 1:5 Behold, O despisers, and look; and wonder wonders, and vanish! For I work a work in your days which in no way shall you believe if any should tell of it in detail.
HAB 1:6 For behold, I awaken the Chaldeans, the bitter and quick nation, the one going upon the widths of the earth, to inherit tents not his.
HAB 1:7 He is fearful and apparent; his judgment will be of himself, and his concern of himself shall come forth.
HAB 1:8 And his horses shall leap more than leopards, and are sharper than the wolves of Arabia. And his horsemen shall ride forth, and shall advance far off; and they shall spread out as an eagle eager for something to eat.
HAB 1:9 Consumption shall come unto the impious ones opposing their fronts right opposite, and he shall gather the captivity as the sand.
HAB 1:10 And he shall revel among kings, and sovereigns are his playthings. And he shall mock at every fortress, and shall throw up an embankment, and shall prevail over it.
HAB 1:11 Then he shall turn the spirit, and shall go through, and shall make atonement, saying, This strength is to my god.
HAB 1:12 Are you not from the beginning, O LORD my God, my holy one? In no way should we die. O LORD, for judgment - you have ordered it. And he shaped me to reprove for his discipline.
HAB 1:13 Pure is the eye to not see evil things, and you are not able to look upon evils. Why should you look upon ones disdaining? Shall you remain silent in the impious one swallowing down the just one?
HAB 1:14 And will you make the men as the fishes of the sea, and as the reptiles not having one taking the lead?
HAB 1:15 He pulled up consumption with a hook, and drew it with his casting-net, and gathered it in his dragnets. Because of this he shall be glad and shall rejoice.
HAB 1:16 Because of this he will sacrifice to his dragnet, and burn incense to his casting-net; for by them he fattened his portion, even his choice foods.
HAB 1:17 On account of this he will cast his casting-net, and always to kill nations - not sparing?
HAB 2:1 Upon my watch I will stand, and I will mount upon a rock. And I will watch over to behold what he should speak in me, and what I will answer upon my being reproved.
HAB 2:2 And the LORD answered to me, and said, Write the vision clearly onto a writing-tablet, so that the one reading these things should take flight.
HAB 2:3 For the vision is yet for a time, and it shall rise in the end, and not in vain. If he should lack, wait for him! For in coming he shall come, and in no way should he delay.
HAB 2:4 If he keeps back, my soul does not think well in him; but the just one shall live from out of my belief.
HAB 2:5 But the one being arrogant and despising, is an ostentatious man; not one thing in any way should he have achieved; who widened his soul as Hades, and this one is as death not being filled up; and he shall assemble unto himself all the nations, and will take in to himself all the peoples.
HAB 2:6 Shall not all these take up a parable against him, and a riddle for his narrative? And they shall say, Woe, the one multiplying to himself the things not being his - how long? even the one oppressing his collar densely.
HAB 2:7 For suddenly ones biting him shall raise up, and the plotters against you shall sober up, and you will be for ravaging to them.
HAB 2:8 In that you despoiled many nations, all the peoples being left shall despoil you, because of the blood of men, and the impious deeds of the land and city, and all of the ones dwelling it.
HAB 2:9 O, the one overabounding in a desire for evil wealth to his house; to arrange his nest in the height; to pull out evils from out of a hand.
HAB 2:10 You deliberated shame to your house; you finished off many peoples, and your soul was led into sin.
HAB 2:11 For the stone shall yell from out of the wall; and the beetle from out of the wood shall utter its sounds.
HAB 2:12 Woe, the one building a city in blood, and prepares a city by iniquities.
HAB 2:13 Are these not from the LORD almighty - even fit peoples failed by fire; and many nations - even they became faint-hearted?
HAB 2:14 For the earth shall be filled to know the glory of the LORD, as water covers up seas.
HAB 2:15 O, the one giving a drink to his neighbor a clouded and intoxicating diet of lees, so that he should look upon their private parts.
HAB 2:16 Drink to the fullness of the dishonor of your glory, and be excited! The cup of the right hand of the LORD encircled you, and dishonor was brought upon your glory.
HAB 2:17 For the impiety of Lebanon shall cover you, and the misery from wild beasts shall terrify you, because of the blood of men, and the impious deeds of the land, and of the city, and of all the ones dwelling it.
HAB 2:18 What benefit is the carved image that they carved it? He shaped it a molten casting - a false visible display. For the one shaping has relied upon the thing shaped by him in the making of mute idols.
HAB 2:19 Woe, the one saying to the wood, Sober up, arise! And to the stone - Be exalted! But it is only a visible display, and it is a hammered piece of gold and silver, and any breath is not in it.
HAB 2:20 But the LORD is in his holy temple. Let all the earth venerate from before him!
HAB 3:1 The prayer of Habakkuk the prophet with an ode. O LORD, I listened to your report, and I feared. O LORD, I contemplated your works, and was startled. In the midst of the two living creatures you shall be known. In the approaching of the years you shall be recognized. In the time at hand you shall be made manifest when my soul is disturbed. In wrath you shall remember mercy.
HAB 3:2 God shall come from Teman, and the holy one from out of the mount of shady Paran. PAUSE. His virtue covered the heavens, and his praise filled the earth.
HAB 3:3 And his brightness will be as light, and horns in his hands. And he established a strong affection by his strength.
HAB 3:4 Before his face shall go a word, and it shall go forth for a flat ground.
HAB 3:5 At his feet the earth stood and shook. He looked and nations melted. The mountains were broke through by force. Eternal hills melted away - his eternal ways.
HAB 3:6 I beheld the tents of Ethiopians in troubles; and the tents of the land of Midian shall be disturbed.
HAB 3:7 Were you provoked to anger at the rivers, O LORD, or was your rage at the rivers, or was your impulse at the sea? O the one riding upon your horses, and your riding is deliverance.
HAB 3:8 Stretching out, you shall stretch out your bow against the chiefdoms, says the LORD. PAUSE. The land of rivers shall be torn.
HAB 3:9 They saw you, and peoples shall travail. You shall disperse waters of the coursing. The abyss gave out her voice - the height of his visible display.
HAB 3:10 The sun was exalted, and the moon stood in her order. At the light of your arrows they shall go forth, and your weapons in brightness of lightning.
HAB 3:11 By intimidation you shall make the land few, and in rage you shall break nations.
HAB 3:12 You came forth for deliverance of your people - to deliver your anointed one - the anointed ones.. You threw death onto the heads of lawless ones. For the completion you raised bonds unto the neck.
HAB 3:13 You cut through heads of mighty ones for astonishment; they shall shake in it; they shall open wide their bridles as the poor eating in private.
HAB 3:14 You divided into parts in stupefaction the heads of the mighty. They shall shake in it. They shall open their reins as the poor chewing in concealment.
HAB 3:15 And you conducted your horses into the sea, disturbing great waters.
HAB 3:16 I watched, and my belly was terrified from the sound of the prayer of my lips. And trembling entered into my bones, and my part beneath. My manner was disturbed. I will rest in a day of my affliction for me to ascend to the people of my sojourn.
HAB 3:17 For the fig-tree shall not bear fruit; and there shall not be produce on the grapevines; the work of the olive shall liefail., and the plains shall not produce food; sheep cease from food, and the oxen shall not exist at the stables.
HAB 3:18 But I shall exult in the LORD, I will rejoice over God my deliverer.
HAB 3:19 The LORD God is my power, and he will arrange my feet unto completion, and upon the high places he shall set me, for me to overcome by his ode.
ZEP 1:1 The word of the LORD which came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah son of Amon, king of Judah.
ZEP 1:2 In want, let all want from the face of the earth, says the LORD!
ZEP 1:3 Let man and cattle be wanting! Let the birds of the heaven be wanting, and the fishes of the sea! And the impious shall be sickened. And I will lift away the lawless deeds from the face of the land, says the LORD.
ZEP 1:4 And I will stretch out my hand upon Judah, and upon all the ones dwelling in Jerusalem; and I will remove from out of this place the names of Baal, and the names of the priests with the consecrated things;
ZEP 1:5 even the ones doing obeisance upon the roofs to the military of the heaven; and the ones doing obeisance and swearing by an oath according to the LORD; and the ones swearing an oath according to their king;
ZEP 1:6 and the ones turning aside from the LORD; and the ones not seeking the LORD; and the ones not holding to him.
ZEP 1:7 Be cautious before the presence of the LORD God, for the day of the LORD is near! For the LORD prepared his sacrifice, and has sanctified his chosen!
ZEP 1:8 And it will be in the day of the sacrifice of the LORD, and I will take vengeance upon the rulers, and upon the house of the king, and upon all the ones putting on alien garments.
ZEP 1:9 And I will visibly take vengeance upon all at the gateways in that day, of the ones filling the house of the LORD their God with impiety and treachery.
ZEP 1:10 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, the sound of a cry from the gate of men piercing, and shrieking of women from the second quarter, and great conflict from the hills.
ZEP 1:11 Wail, O ones dwelling the place being cut in pieces! For all the people are like Canaan, and all the ones lifting up silver were utterly destroyed.
ZEP 1:12 And it will be in that day, I will search out Jerusalem with a lamp. And I will take vengeance upon the men paying no attention to their injunctions; and the ones saying in their hearts, In no way shall the LORD do good, nor shall he inflict evil.
ZEP 1:13 And their power will be for ravaging, and their houses for extinction. And they shall build houses, but in no way shall they dwell in them. And they shall plant vineyards, and in no way shall they drink of their wine.
ZEP 1:14 For the great day of the LORD is near - and near very quickly. The sound of the day of the LORD is ordered up bitter and harsh.
ZEP 1:15 That day is a mighty day of anger; a day of affliction and distress; a day of misery and extinction; a day of dimness and darkness; a day of cloud and fog;
ZEP 1:16 a day of trumpet and a cry against the fortified cities, and against the high corners.
ZEP 1:17 And I will squeeze out the men, and they shall go as blind men, for against the LORD they led into sin. And he shall pour out their blood as dust, and their flesh as dung.
ZEP 1:18 And their silver and their gold in no way shall be able to rescue them in the day of the anger of the LORD; and by fire his zeal shall consume all the earth. For completion and diligence he will execute it upon all the ones dwelling the earth.
ZEP 2:1 Be gathered and bound together, O uninstructed nation!
ZEP 2:2 before your becoming as a flower passing the day; before the coming upon you the wrath of the LORD; before the coming upon you the day of the wrath of the rage of the LORD.
ZEP 2:3 Seek the LORD all you humble ones of the earth! Work equity, and seek righteousness, and answer them accordingly, so that you should be sheltered in the day of the wrath of the LORD!
ZEP 2:4 For Gaza will be for plundering, and Ashkelon for extinction, and Ashdod at midday shall be cast forth, and Ekron shall be rooted out.
ZEP 2:5 Woe, the ones dwelling the measured out land of the sea - sojourners of Cretans. The word of the LORD is against you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines; and I will destroy you of your dwelling.
ZEP 2:6 And Crete shall be a pasture of flocks, and a haven for sheep.
ZEP 2:7 And the measured out piece of land by the sea will be for the remnant of the house of Judah. Upon them they shall pasture in the houses of Ashkelon. In the afternoon they shall rest up from in front of the sons of Judah. For the LORD their God shall visit them, and he shall return their captivity.
ZEP 2:8 I heard the scorns of Moab, and the ill-treatment by the sons of Ammon, in which they berated my people, and magnified themselves over my borders.
ZEP 2:9 On account of this, as I live, says the LORD of the forces, the God of Israel, that Moab will be as Sodom, and the sons of Ammon as Gomorrah, and Damascus ceasing. And it will be as a heap of salt into the eon. And the remnants of my people shall plunder them, and the remnants of my nation shall inherit them.
ZEP 2:10 This is to them for their insolence, for they berated and magnified themselves over the LORD almighty.
ZEP 2:11 The LORD shall appear against them, and he shall utterly destroy all the gods of the nations of the earth; and they shall do obeisance to him, each from his place - all the islands of the nations.
ZEP 2:12 And you, O Ethiopians, are the slain of my broadsword.
ZEP 2:13 And he will stretch out his hand against the north. And he shall destroy the Assyrian, and he shall establish Nineveh for a waterless extinction, as a wilderness.
ZEP 2:14 And flocks shall feed in the midst of her, even all the wild beasts of the earth, and chameleons; and hedgehogs shall make a bed in her fretwork; and wild beasts sound out loud in her ditches; and crows in her gatehouses. For her height was as the cedar.
ZEP 2:15 This is the heedless city dwelling upon hope, who says in her heart, I am, and there is not after me any longer. O how it was for extinction - a pasture of wild beasts. Every one traveling through her shall whistle and shall shake his hands.
ZEP 3:1 O the prominent and ransomed city, the dove.
ZEP 3:2 She listened not to your voice; she did not take instruction; she relied not upon the LORD; and to her God she did not approach.
ZEP 3:3 Her rulers among her are as lions roaring; her judges are as wolves of Arabia; they did not remain behind into the morning.
ZEP 3:4 Her prophets are men carried by the wind - despisers. Her priests profane the holy things, and are impious against the law.
ZEP 3:5 But the just LORD is in the midst of her, and in no way shall he do an unjust thing. Morning by morning he executes his judgment in light, and it was not concealed; and he does not know injustice by exaction, and not injustice by altercation.
ZEP 3:6 I tore down the proud; their corners were obliterated; I shall make quite desolate their ways thoroughly so as to not travel through. Their cities vanished by reason of no one existing nor dwelling.
ZEP 3:7 I said, Furthermore fear me, and receive instruction, and in no way shall you be utterly destroyed from before her eyes, for all as much vengeance as I brought upon her! Prepare! Rise early! All their gleaning is ruined.
ZEP 3:8 On account of this wait for me, says the LORD, for the day of my rising up for a testimony! For my judgment shall be for a gathering of nations; to take kings; to pour out upon them all of my anger - the anger of my rage. For all the earth shall be consumed by the fire of my zeal.
ZEP 3:9 For then I will transfer upon the peoples one tongue for her generation; for all to call upon the name of the LORD, to serve him under one yoke.
ZEP 3:10 From the limits of the rivers of Ethiopia, I will welcome the ones of mine having been dispersed. They shall bring sacrifices to me.
ZEP 3:11 In that day in no way shall you be disgraced from all of your practices, which you were impious against me. For then I shall remove from you the careless attitudes of your insolence, and no longer should you proceed to make great brag over my holy mountain.
ZEP 3:12 And I will leave behind among you a gentle people, and humble. And they shall show reverence at the name of the LORD.
ZEP 3:13 The remnant of Israel, even they shall not commit iniquity, and they shall not speak vanity, and in no way should there be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue. For they shall feed, and shall lay in bed, and there will not be one frightening them.
ZEP 3:14 Rejoice, O daughter of Zion! Proclaim, O daughter of Jerusalem! Be glad and delight yourself with your entire heart, O daughter of Jerusalem!
ZEP 3:15 The LORD removed your offences. He has ransomed you from out of the hand of your enemies. The king of Israel - the LORD in the midst of you. You shall not see bad things any longer.
ZEP 3:16 In that time the LORD shall say to Jerusalem, Be of courage, O Zion, do not neglect your hands!
ZEP 3:17 The LORD your God among you; the mighty one shall deliver you. He shall bring upon you gladness, and shall revive you in his affection. And he shall be glad over you with delight as in the day of the holiday feast.
ZEP 3:18 And I will gather your ones being broken. Woe, any taken scorning upon her.
ZEP 3:19 Behold, I will act among you, because of you in that time. And I will deliver her being pressured, and will take her being thrust away. And I will establish them for boasting and fame in all the earth.
ZEP 3:20 And their enemies shall be disgraced in that time, whenever I should do well with you, and in the time whenever I should take you in. For I will make you famous and for boasting among all the peoples of the earth, in my returning your captivity before your eyes, says the LORD.
HAG 1:1 In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, day one of the month, came the word of the LORD by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying, Say to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, from the tribe of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the great priest, saying,
HAG 1:2 Thus says the LORD almighty, saying, This people say, The time is not come to build the house of the LORD.
HAG 1:3 And came to pass the word of the LORD by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying,
HAG 1:4 Is it indeed time for you to live in your vaulted houses, but this house is quite desolate?
HAG 1:5 And now, thus says the LORD almighty, Arrange your hearts for your journeys!
HAG 1:6 You sowed much, and carried in little; you ate, and not unto fullness; you drank, and not unto intoxication; you clothed yourselves, and were not heated by these; and the one of the ones gathering wages gathered them in a bundle having holes being made in it.
HAG 1:7 Thus says the LORD almighty, Establish your hearts for your journeys!
HAG 1:8 Ascend into the mountain, and cut wood! And you shall build the house; and I will think well by it, and I will be glorified, said the LORD.
HAG 1:9 You looked for much, and there became little; and it was carried into the house, and I blew it away. On account of this, thus says the LORD almighty, Because my house is deserted, and you each pursue unto his own house -
HAG 1:10 on account of this the heaven witholds of dew, and the earth keeps back its resources.
HAG 1:11 And I will bring the broadsword upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the grain, and upon the wine, and upon the olive oil, and as much as the earth brings forth, and upon the men, and upon the cattle, and upon all the toils of their hands.
HAG 1:12 And they heard, (Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, from the tribe of Judah, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the great priest, and all the rest of the people,) the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, in so far as what the LORD their God sent him for them. And the people feared from in front of the LORD.
HAG 1:13 And Haggai the messenger of the LORD said among the messengers of the LORD, Say to the people! I am with you, says the LORD.
HAG 1:14 And the LORD awakened the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, of the tribe of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Josedech, the great priest, and the spirit of the rest of the people; and they entered and did the works in the house of the LORD almighty, their God,
HAG 1:15 on the fourth and twentieth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.
HAG 2:1 In the seventh month, one and twentieth day of the month, came to pass the word of the LORD by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying,
HAG 2:2 Speak indeed to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, of the tribe of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the great priest, and to all the ones left of the people, saying,
HAG 2:3 Who is there of you who beheld this house in the former glory of it? And how do you see it now? Is it as not existing before you?
HAG 2:4 And now take strength, O Zerubbabel, says the LORD! And take strength, O Joshua, son of Josedech, the great priest! And let all the people of the land grow strong, says the LORD! And act! For I am with you, says the LORD almighty.
HAG 2:5 The word which I ordained with you in your coming forth from Egypt, and my spirit I set in the midst of you - take courage!
HAG 2:6 For thus says the LORD almighty, Still once I will shake the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land.
HAG 2:7 And I will shake all the nations, and the chosen ones of all the nations shall come; and I will fill this house with glory, says the LORD almighty.
HAG 2:8 Mine is the silver, and mine is the gold, says the LORD almighty.
HAG 2:9 For great will be the glory of this house, the last one above the first, says the LORD almighty. And in this place I will establish peace, says the LORD almighty; even peace of soul for the procurement to every one creating to raise up this temple.
HAG 2:10 In the fourth and twentieth day in the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came to pass the word of the LORD to Haggai the prophet, saying,
HAG 2:11 Thus says the LORD almighty, Ask indeed of the priests concerning the law! saying,
HAG 2:12 If a man took holy meat with the tip of his garment, and there touched the tip of his garment some bread, or stew, or wine, or olive oil, or any food, shall it be sanctified? And the priests answered and said, No.
HAG 2:13 And Haggai said, If one being defiled should touch upon a dead soul of any of these, shall he be defiled? And the priests answered and said, He shall be defiled.
HAG 2:14 And Haggai answered, and said, So this people, and so this nation is before me, says the LORD; and so all the works of their hands; and whoever should approach there shall be defiled. Because of their concerns of the early morning burdens they shall grieve from in front of their wickednesses, and you detested the ones reproving at the doors.
HAG 2:15 And now, set it indeed upon your hearts from this day and above, before putting stone upon stone in the temple of the LORD;
HAG 2:16 what you were when you put into the granary twenty seahs of barley, and there existed only ten seahs of barley. And you entered into the wine-vat to draw out fifty measures, and there existed only twenty.
HAG 2:17 I struck you with non-productivity, and with being wind-blown, and with hail upon all the works of your hands - and you turned not to me, says the LORD.
HAG 2:18 Arrange indeed your hearts from this day and beyond - from the fourth and twentieth day of the ninth month, and from the day of which the temple of the LORD was laid a foundation - establish it in your hearts!
HAG 2:19 Shall yet it be recognized upon the threshing-floor? And shall yet the grapevine, and the fig-tree, and the pomegranate, and the trees of the olive not bearing fruit be recognized? From this day I shall bless.
HAG 2:20 And came to pass the word of the LORD of a second time to Haggai the prophet, the fourth and twentieth day of the month, saying,
HAG 2:21 Speak to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, of the tribe of Judah, saying, I shall shake the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land.
HAG 2:22 And I shall eradicate thrones of kings. And I shall annihilate the power of kings of the nations. And I shall eradicate chariots and riders. And there shall come down horses and their riders, each with a broadsword against his brother.
HAG 2:23 In that day, says the LORD almighty, I will take you Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, my servant, says the LORD, and I will set you as a seal. For I have selected you, says the LORD almighty.
ZEC 1:1 In the eighth month, of the second year unto Darius, came to pass the word of the LORD to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, son of Iddo the prophet, saying,
ZEC 1:2 The LORD was provoked to anger by your fathers - a great anger.
ZEC 1:3 And you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD of the forces; Turn to me, says the LORD of the forces! And I shall be turned towards you, says the LORD of the forces.
ZEC 1:4 And do not become as your fathers, whom the prophets accused them! The prophets beforehand saying, Thus says the LORD of the forces; Turn from your wicked ways, and from your wicked practices! And they listened not., and did not take heed to listen to me, says the LORD.
ZEC 1:5 Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, shall they live into the eon?
ZEC 1:6 Furthermore do you receive my words and my laws, as many as I give charge by my spirit to my servants the prophets overtaking your fathers? And they answered and said, As the LORD of the forces deployed to do to us according to our ways, and according to our practices, so he did to us.
ZEC 1:7 On the fourth and twentieth day in the eleventh month, this is the month Shebat, in the second year unto Darius, came to pass the word of the LORD to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, son of Iddo the prophet, saying,
ZEC 1:8 I saw the night, and behold, a man having mounted a reddish horse, and this one stood in the midst of the shady mountains; and behind him were reddish horses, and white, and spotted.
ZEC 1:9 And I said, What are these, O lord? And the angel said to me, the one speaking to me, I will show to you what these are.
ZEC 1:10 And the man answered, the one standing in the midst of the mountains, and said to me, These are whom the LORD sent out to travel about the earth.
ZEC 1:11 And they answered to the angel of the LORD standing in the midst the mountains, and said, We have traveled about the earth, and behold, all the earth is inhabited and tranquil.
ZEC 1:12 And the angel of the LORD answered and said, O LORD of the forces, until when shall you in no way show mercy on Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, in which you were enraged over this seventieth year?
ZEC 1:13 And the LORD responded to the angel speaking with me with good sayings and comforting words.
ZEC 1:14 And the angel speaking with me said to me, Shout aloud! saying, Thus says the LORD almighty; I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with great zeal.
ZEC 1:15 And I am provoked with great anger by the nations joining in making an attack; because I indeed was provoked to anger a little, but they joined in making an attack for evils.
ZEC 1:16 On account of this, thus says the LORD, I will turn towards Jerusalem in compassion. And my house shall be rebuilt in it, says the LORD of the forces, and a measure shall be stretched out upon Jerusalem.
ZEC 1:17 Shout aloud again, saying! Thus says the LORD of the of the forces; Yet shall cities be dispersed for good things; and the LORD shall show mercy still on Zion, and shall select still Jerusalem.
ZEC 1:18 And I lifted my eyes, and I looked, and behold four horns.
ZEC 1:19 And I said to the angel speaking with me, What are these, O lord? And he said to me, These are the horns scattering Judah, and Israel, and Jerusalem.
ZEC 1:20 And the LORD showed to me four fabricators.
ZEC 1:21 And I said, What are these come to do? And he said to me, saying, These are the horns having scattered Judah, and they broke Israel, and not one of them lifted his head. And these are come forth to sharpen them in their hands - the four horns are nations lifting up their horn against the land of the LORD to scatter it.
ZEC 2:1 And I lifted my eyes, and I beheld, and behold, a man; and in his hand was a measuring line of a surveyor.
ZEC 2:2 And I said to him, Where do you go? And he said to me, To measure out Jerusalem, and to see how great the width of it is, and how great the length.
ZEC 2:3 And behold, the angel speaking with me stopped, and another angel went forth to meet with him.
ZEC 2:4 And he said to him, Run and speak to that young man! saying, Fruitfully shall Jerusalem be inhabited of a multitude of men and of cattle in the midst of her.
ZEC 2:5 And I will be to her, says the LORD, a wall of fire round about, and I will be for glory in the midst of her.
ZEC 2:6 O, O, flee from the land of the north! says the LORD. For from out of the four winds of the heaven I will gather you, says the LORD.
ZEC 2:7 Unto Zion escape, O the ones dwelling with the daughter of Babylon!
ZEC 2:8 For thus says the LORD almighty, After glory he has sent me out unto the nations despoiling you; for the one touching you is as the one touching the pupil of his eye.
ZEC 2:9 For behold, I bear my hand against them, and they will be spoils to the ones serving to them. And you shall know that the LORD almighty has sent me.
ZEC 2:10 Be happy and glad, O daughter of Zion! For behold, I come, and I will encamp in the midst of you, says the LORD.
ZEC 2:11 And many nations shall take refuge unto the LORD in that day, and they will be to him for a people. And I will encamp in your midst, and you shall realize that the LORD almighty has sent me to you.
ZEC 2:12 And the LORD shall inherit Judah his portion upon the holy land, and will select still Jerusalem.
ZEC 2:13 Let all flesh show reverence from in front of the LORD; for he was awakened from out of his holy clouds.
ZEC 3:1 And the LORD showed to me Joshua the great priest standing in front of the angel of the LORD, and the devil standing at the right of him, being an adversary against him.
ZEC 3:2 And the LORD said to the devil, May the LORD reproach against you, O devil, and may the LORD reproach against you, the one choosing Jerusalem. Is this not a firebrand being pulled out of the fire?
ZEC 3:3 And Joshua was being clothed with filthy garments, and stood in front of the angel.
ZEC 3:4 And the angel responded and said to the ones standing in front of him, saying, Remove the filthy garments from him! And he said to him, Behold, I took your iniquities. And you clothe him in a foot length robe!
ZEC 3:5 And he said, Place also a mitre and a clean turban upon his head! And they placed a mitre and a clean turban upon his head. And they put garments around him. And the angel of the LORD stood.
ZEC 3:6 And the angel of the LORD testified to Joshua, saying,
ZEC 3:7 Thus says the LORD almighty; If you should go in my ways, and should keep guard my orders, then you shall litigate my house; and you shall guard my courtyard, and I will give to you ones pacing in the midst of these standing.
ZEC 3:8 Hear indeed, O Joshua the great priest, you, and your neighbors sitting down before in front of you! For they are men that are observers of signs. For behold, I will bring my servant - rising.
ZEC 3:9 For the stone which I put before the face of Joshua; upon the one stone are seven eyes. Behold, I dig an excavation, says the LORD almighty, and I will handle all the injustice of the land in one day.
ZEC 3:10 In that day, says the LORD almighty, you shall call together each his neighbor underneath a grapevine and underneath a fig-tree.
ZEC 4:1 And the angel speaking with me returned, and awakened me, in which manner whenever a man should be awakened from out of his sleep.
ZEC 4:2 And he said to me, What do you see? And I said, I have seen, and behold, a lamp-stand entirely of gold, and the oil lamp bowl upon it, and seven lamps upon it, and seven oil funnels to the seven lamps upon it,
ZEC 4:3 and two olive trees upon it, one at the right of its oil lamp bowl, and one at the left.
ZEC 4:4 And I asked, and said to the angel speaking with me, saying, What are these, O lord?
ZEC 4:5 And the angel answered, the one speaking with me, and said to me, Know you not what these are? And I said, No, O lord.
ZEC 4:6 And he responded and said to me, saying, This is the word of the LORD to Zerubbabel, saying, Not by great power, nor by strength, but by my spirit, says the LORD almighty.
ZEC 4:7 Who are you great mountain before the face of Zerubbabel to set up? And I will bring forth the stone of the inheritance of its favor equaling my favor.
ZEC 4:8 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
ZEC 4:9 The hands of Zerubbabel laid the foundation of this house, and his hands shall complete it; and you shall recognize that the LORD almighty has sent me to you.
ZEC 4:10 For who treated with contempt small days? And they shall rejoice, and shall see the tin stone plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel; these seven eyes of the LORD are the ones looking upon all the earth.
ZEC 4:11 And I responded, and said to him, What are these two olive trees on the right side of the lamp-stand, and on the left?
ZEC 4:12 And I asked of a second time, and I said to him, What are the two branches of the olive trees, the ones by the handles of the two tubes of gold pouring and returning back the oil by funnels of gold?
ZEC 4:13 And he spoke to me, saying, Do you know not what these are? And I said, No, O lord.
ZEC 4:14 And he said, These are the two sons of the fatness - they stand beside the LORD of all the earth.
ZEC 5:1 And I turned, and lifted my eyes, and saw, and behold, a sickle flying.
ZEC 5:2 And he said to me, What do you see? And I said, I see a sickle flying, the length - twenty cubits, and the width - ten cubits.
ZEC 5:3 And he said to me, This is the curse going forth upon the face of all the earth. For every thief of this one side shall be punished unto death, and every perjurer of this other side shall be punished unto death.
ZEC 5:4 And I will bring it forth, says the LORD almighty, and it shall enter into the house of the thief, and into the house of the one swearing an oath by my name for a lie. And it shall rest in the midst of his house, and it shall finish it off entirely, even its wood and its stones.
ZEC 5:5 And came forth the angel speaking to me, and he said to me, Look up with your eyes, and behold what this going forth is!
ZEC 5:6 And I said, What is it? And he said, This is the measure basket going forth. And he said, This is their iniquity in all the earth.
ZEC 5:7 And behold, a talent of lead was being lifted away; and behold, one woman sat down in the midst of the measure basket.
ZEC 5:8 And he said, This is lawlessness. And he tossed her into the midst of the measure basket, and he tossed the stone of lead into her mouth.
ZEC 5:9 And I lifted my eyes, and I saw, and behold, two women going forth, and the wind was in their wings; and these had wings as wings of the hoopoe bird. And they took up the measure basket between the earth and the heaven.
ZEC 5:10 And I said to the angel speaking with me, Where are these carrying the measure basket?
ZEC 5:11 And he said to me, They build for it a house in the land of Babylon, and to prepare. And they shall put it there upon its preparation place.
ZEC 6:1 And I turned, and lifted my eyes, and beheld, and behold, four chariots were going forth from out of the midst of two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass.
ZEC 6:2 With the first chariot were reddish horses; and with the second chariot black horses.
ZEC 6:3 And with the third chariot were white horses; and with the fourth chariot spotted and dapple-gray horses.
ZEC 6:4 And I responded and said to the angel speaking with me, What are these, O lord?
ZEC 6:5 And the angel answered, the one speaking with me, and said, These are the four winds of the heaven, and they go forth to stand beside the Lord of all the earth,
ZEC 6:6 with which were the black horses - they went forth upon the land of the north; and the white - they went forth after them; and the spotted - they went forth upon the land of the south,
ZEC 6:7 and dapple-gray - they went forth, and looked to travel about the earth. And he said, Go and travel about the earth! And they traveled about the earth.
ZEC 6:8 And he yelled out, and spoke to me, saying, Behold, the ones going forth upon the land of the north caused rest for my rage in the land of the north.
ZEC 6:9 And came to pass the word of the LORD to me, saying,
ZEC 6:10 Take the ones of the captivity from the rulers, and from its profitable ones, and from the ones recognizing it! And you shall enter in that day, into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah having come from out of Babylon.
ZEC 6:11 And you shall take silver and gold, and you shall make crowns, and shall place them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech, the great priest.
ZEC 6:12 And you shall say to him, Thus says the LORD almighty, Behold, a male - Rising is his name. And from beneath him he shall rise and shall build the house of the LORD.
ZEC 6:13 And he shall receive virtue, and shall sit and rule upon his throne. And there shall be a priest at his right. And peaceable counsel will be between both.
ZEC 6:14 But the crown will be to the ones waiting, and to the ones profitable of her, and to the ones recognizing her, and for the favor of the son of Zephaniah, and for a psalm in the house of the LORD.
ZEC 6:15 And the ones far from them shall come, and shall build in the house of the LORD. And you shall know, for the LORD almighty has sent me to you; and it will be as if ones listening should have listened to the voice of the LORD your God.
ZEC 7:1 And it came to pass in the fourth year of Darius the king, the word of the LORD came to Zechariah the fourth of the ninth month, which is Chisleu.
ZEC 7:2 And Sherezar sent to Beth-el, and Regem the king, and his men, to atone the LORD,
ZEC 7:3 saying to the priests in the house of the LORD almighty, and to the prophets, saying, The sanctified offering has entered here in the fifth month, as it did already a fit number of years.
ZEC 7:4 And came to pass the word of the LORD of the forces to me, saying,
ZEC 7:5 Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, If you should fast or beat your chest in the fifth or in the seventh months, and behold, for seventy years, by fasting have you fasted to me?
ZEC 7:6 And if you should eat or should drink, do you not eat and drink to yourselves?
ZEC 7:7 Are not these my words which the LORD spoke by the hands of the prophets before, when Jerusalem was inhabited, and prospering, and her cities round about, and the mountainous area and the plain were inhabited?
ZEC 7:8 And came to pass the word of the LORD to Zechariah, saying,
ZEC 7:9 Thus says the LORD almighty, saying, A just judgment you shall judge, and let each execute mercy and compassion towards his brother!
ZEC 7:10 And tyrannize not the widow and orphan and foreigner and needy! And let each not resent the hurt of his brother in your hearts!
ZEC 7:11 And they resisted to take heed, and gave their back side ranting, and pressed their ears to not listen.
ZEC 7:12 And their heart was ordered for resisting persuasion, to not listen to my law, and the words which the LORD almighty sent out by his spirit, by the hands of the prophets before. And there was great anger by the LORD almighty.
ZEC 7:13 And it will be in which manner I spoke, and they listened not to him. So they shall cry out, and in no way shall I listen, says the LORD almighty.
ZEC 7:14 And I will cast them into all the nations which they knew not. And the land shall be obliterated after them from traveling through, and from returning. Yes, they ordered up the choice land for extinction.
ZEC 8:1 And came to pass the word of the LORD almighty, saying,
ZEC 8:2 Thus says the LORD almighty, I have been zealous for Jerusalem and Zion with a great zeal, and with great rage I have been zealous over her.
ZEC 8:3 Thus says the LORD, I will return unto Zion, and will encamp in the midst of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem will be called the true city; and the mountain of the LORD almighty, the holy mountain.
ZEC 8:4 Thus says the LORD almighty, Yet shall sit down older men and older women in the squares of Jerusalem, each having his cane in his hand because of a multitude of days.
ZEC 8:5 And the squares of the city shall be filled with boys and girls playing in her squares.
ZEC 8:6 Thus says the LORD almighty, Shall it be impossible in the presence of the remnant of this people in those days? Shall it be impossible also before me, says the LORD almighty?
ZEC 8:7 Thus says the LORD almighty, Behold, I deliver my people from the land of the east, and from the land of the west.
ZEC 8:8 And I will bring them, and they will encamp in the midst of Jerusalem. And they will be to me for a people, and I will be to them for God, in truth and in righteousness.
ZEC 8:9 Thus says the LORD almighty; Strengthen your hands, O ones hearing in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets, from which day the house of the LORD almighty was founded, and from which day the temple was built.
ZEC 8:10 For before those days the wage of men will not be for profitability; and the wage of the cattle does not exist. And to the one going forth, and to the one entering there will not be peace because of the affliction. And I shall send out all the men, each against his neighbor.
ZEC 8:11 And now, not according to the days prior will I do to the remnant of this people, says the LORD almighty.
ZEC 8:12 But I will show peace - the grapevine shall give her fruit, and the earth will give her produce, and the heaven will give its dew. And I will allot to the remnants of my people all these things.
ZEC 8:13 And it will be in which manner you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah, and O house of Israel; so shall I preserve you, and you will be a blessing. Be of courage and grow strong in your hands!
ZEC 8:14 For thus says the LORD almighty, In which manner I consider to inflict evil on you in your fathers provoking me to anger, says the LORD almighty, and I did not change my mind;
ZEC 8:15 so I was deployed and have considered in these days to do well for Jerusalem and the house of Judah - be of courage!
ZEC 8:16 These are the matters which you shall do. Let each speak truth to his neighbor, and peaceable judgment, and judge just at your gates!
ZEC 8:17 And let each not consider evil against his neighbor in your hearts! And do not love a lying oath! For all these things I detested, says the LORD almighty.
ZEC 8:18 And came to pass the word of the LORD almighty to me, saying,
ZEC 8:19 Thus says the LORD almighty, Fasting on the fourth month, and fasting on the fifth, and fasting on the seventh, and fasting on the tenth, shall be to the house of Judah for joy and gladness, and for good holiday feasts; and you shall be glad, and love truth and peace.
ZEC 8:20 Thus says the LORD almighty, Still there shall come many peoples, and dwelling many cities.
ZEC 8:21 And shall come together ones dwelling cities to one city, saying, We should go to beseech the face of the LORD, and to seek after the face of the LORD almighty - even I shall go.
ZEC 8:22 And there shall come many peoples and many nations to seek after the face of the LORD almighty in Jerusalem, and to atone in front of the LORD.
ZEC 8:23 Thus says the LORD almighty; In those days ten men shall take hold of ones of all the languages of nations. And they shall take hold of the decorative hem of a Jewish man, saying, We shall go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.
ZEC 9:1 The concern of the word of the \Scap lord 22 enagainst the land of Hadrach, and his sacrifice of Damascus. For the LORD inspects men, and all the tribes of Israel;
ZEC 9:2 and Hamath among her limits, Tyre and Sidon, for they thought exceedingly.
ZEC 9:3 And Tyre built a fortress to herself, and treasured up silver as dust, and gathered gold as mud of streets.
ZEC 9:4 On account of this, the LORD will inherit her, and he shall strike her power in the sea; and she shall be consumed by fire.
ZEC 9:5 Ashkelon shall see, and shall fear; and Gaza, even she shall grieve exceedingly, and Ekron; for she shall be ashamed over her transgression; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon in no way should be inhabited.
ZEC 9:6 And foreigners shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will demolish the insolence of the Philistines.
ZEC 9:7 And I will lift away their blood from out of their mouth, and their abominations from between their teeth. And they shall leave behind also these to our God, and they will be as under a commander of a thousand in Judah, and Ekron will be as the Jebusite.
ZEC 9:8 And I will stand my house on a height, so as to not travel through nor return. And in no way should there come upon them any longer ones launching an expedition; for now I have seen with my eyes.
ZEC 9:9 Rejoice exceedingly, O daughter of Zion! Proclaim, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king comes to you, just and delivering. He is gentle, and mounted upon a beast of burden, even a young foal.
ZEC 9:10 And he shall utterly destroy chariots from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem; the bow of warfare shall be utterly destroyed, and abundance and peace out of nations. And he shall rule waters unto the sea, and from rivers of the passes of the earth.
ZEC 9:11 And you, by the blood of your covenant, sent out your prisoners from the pit not having water.
ZEC 9:12 You shall settle prisoners of the congregation in fortresses; and for one day of your sojourning I will recompense to you double.
ZEC 9:13 For I stretched you tight to myself, O Judah, as a bow. I filled Ephraim, and I will awaken your children, O Zion, against the children of the Greeks. And I will handle you as the broadsword of a warrior.
ZEC 9:14 And the LORD shall be seen over them, and his arrow shall go forth as lightning. And the LORD God by a trumpet shall trump, and his intimidation goes for tossing about.
ZEC 9:15 The LORD almighty shall shield them; and they shall consume them, and shall heap upon them with stones of a sling; and they shall drink up their blood as wine, and shall fill the bowls as an altar basin.
ZEC 9:16 And the LORD their God shall deliver them in that day as the sheep of his people. For holy stones shall roll upon his land.
ZEC 9:17 For if anything be good of his, and if any be fair of his, the grain will be for the young men, and wine being fragrant for the virgins.
ZEC 10:1 Ask of the LORD for rain according to season, the early and late rain. The LORD made a visible display; and the rain of winter he gives to them - to each pasturage in the field.
ZEC 10:2 For the ones declaring maxims speak troubles, and the clairvoyants false visions, and they speak false dreams. In vain they comfort. On account of this they dry up as sheep, and were afflicted for there was not a healing.
ZEC 10:3 My rage was provoked over the shepherds, and over the lambs I visit. And the LORD God almighty will visit his flock - the house of Judah. And he shall order them as his good-looking horse in battle.
ZEC 10:4 And from out of him he looked upon; and from out of him he ordered a bow in rage; and from out of him shall come forth every expedition by him.
ZEC 10:5 And they shall be as warriors treading mud in the ways in battle. And they shall deploy, because the LORD is with them, and the riders of horses shall be disgraced.
ZEC 10:6 And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and the house of Joseph I will deliver. And I will settle them; for I loved them. And they will be in which manner when I disowned them not. For I am the LORD their God, and I shall take heed of them.
ZEC 10:7 And they will be as warriors to Ephraim, and their heart shall rejoice as with wine. And their children shall see, and be glad; and their heart shall rejoice over the LORD.
ZEC 10:8 I will signify for them, and I will take them in; for I will ransom them. And they shall be multiplied, in so far as they were many.
ZEC 10:9 And I will sow them among peoples. And the ones far off shall remember me; and they shall nourish their children, and shall return.
ZEC 10:10 And I will turn them from out of the land of Egypt, and from the Assyrians I will take them in; and into the land of Gilead, and into Lebanon I will bring them; and in no way should there be left behind of them not even one.
ZEC 10:11 And they shall go through by the narrow sea, and they shall strike waves in the sea, and all the depths of rivers shall be dried up. And all the insolence of the Assyrians shall be removed, and the staff of Egypt shall be removed.
ZEC 10:12 And I will strengthen them in the LORD their God; and in his name they shall boast, says the LORD.
ZEC 11:1 Open wide, O Lebanon, your doors, and let fire devour your cedars!
ZEC 11:2 Let the pine shriek! For the cedar has fallen; for great ones were in misery. Shriek, O oaks of Bashan! For the planted groves were torn down.
ZEC 11:3 A sound of wailing of shepherds, for their greatness languishes. A sound of roaring lions, for the neighing of the Jordan languishes.
ZEC 11:4 Thus says the LORD almighty, Tend the sheep of the slaughter,
ZEC 11:5 which the ones acquiring butcher, and are not repenting. And the ones selling them said, Blessed be the LORD, we were enriched. And their shepherds suffered not anything for them.
ZEC 11:6 On account of this, I will not spare any longer over the ones inhabiting the land, says the LORD. And behold, I deliver up the men, each into the hand of his neighbor, and into the hand of his king. And they shall cut in pieces the land, and in no way should I rescue from out of their hand.
ZEC 11:7 And I will tend the sheep of the slaughter among the Canaanites. And I will take for myself two rods; the one I called Beauty, and the other I called, A piece of measured out land. And I will tend the sheep.
ZEC 11:8 And I will lift away the three shepherds in one month; and my soul shall be weighed down over them, for their souls roared against me.
ZEC 11:9 And I said, I will not tend you. The dying, let it die! And the failing, let it fail! And the rest, let them each eat the flesh of his neighbor!
ZEC 11:10 And I will take my rod, Beauty, and will throw it away to efface my covenant which I ordained with all the peoples.
ZEC 11:11 And it shall be effaced in that day. And the Canaanites shall know the sheep being guarded for me, that it is the word of the LORD.
ZEC 11:12 And I will say to them, If it is good before you, give my wage, or forbid it! And they established my wage - thirty pieces of silver.
ZEC 11:13 And the LORD said to me, Lower them into the foundry furnace! And look about if it is unadulterated, in which manner I was proved for them! And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and I put them into the house of the LORD, into the foundry furnace.
ZEC 11:14 And I threw away my rod, the second, A Piece of Measured out Land - to efface the taking possession the thing between Judah and between Israel.
ZEC 11:15 And the LORD said to me, Yet take to yourself the equipment of a shepherd - an inexperienced shepherd!
ZEC 11:16 For behold, I shall arouse a shepherd against the land, one who in no way shall visit the one faltering; and in no way shall he seek the one being dispersed; and in no way shall he heal the one being broken; and in no way shall he conduct the whole. And of the choice meats he shall devour, and he shall distort their vertebrae.
ZEC 11:17 O the ones tending the vain things, and leaving behind the sheep; a sword shall be against his arm, and against his right eye. His arm withering shall be withered, and his right eye by blinding shall be blinded.
ZEC 12:1 The concern of the word of the LORD over Israel, says the LORD, the one stretching out the heaven, and laying the foundation for the earth, and shaping the spirit of man in him.
ZEC 12:2 Behold, I appoint Jerusalem as thresholds for shaking all the peoples round about. And in Judea there will be an encompassing about against Jerusalem.
ZEC 12:3 And it will be in that day I will appoint Jerusalem as a stone being trampled by all the nations. Every one trampling her with mocking shall mock, and all the nations of the earth shall be assembled against her.
ZEC 12:4 In that day, says the LORD almighty, I will strike every horse with astonishment, and its rider in ranting. But over the house of Judah I will open my eyes, and all the horses of the peoples I will strike with blindness.
ZEC 12:5 And the commanders of thousands of Judah shall say in their hearts, We shall find to ourselves of the ones dwelling Jerusalem in the LORD almighty their God.
ZEC 12:6 In that day I will make the commanders of thousands of Judah as a firebrand of fire among the wood, and as a lamp of fire among stubble; and they shall devour from the right, and from the left all the peoples round about. And Jerusalem shall dwell yet according to herself in Jerusalem.
ZEC 12:7 And the LORD shall deliver the tents of Judah as at the beginning, so that the house of David should not magnify their boasting, and the haughtiness of the ones dwelling in Jerusalem over Judah.
ZEC 12:8 And it will be in that day the LORD will shield over the ones dwelling Jerusalem; and it will be the one being weak among them in that day will be as David; and the house of David as the house of God, as the angel of the LORD before them.
ZEC 12:9 And it shall be in that day, I will seek to lift away all the nations coming against Jerusalem.
ZEC 12:10 And I will pour out upon the house of David, and upon the ones dwelling Jerusalem, a spirit of favor and compassion. And they shall look to me on whom they pierced, because they treated me despitefully; and they shall beat over him with a beating of the breast, as over a beloved one; and they shall grieve with grief as over the first-born.
ZEC 12:11 In that day beating the breast shall be magnified in Jerusalem, as the beating of the breast over the pomegranate grove in the plain having been cut down.
ZEC 12:12 And the land shall beat the chest according to tribes by tribes; the tribe of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves; the tribe of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves;
ZEC 12:13 the tribe of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves; the tribe of Simeon by itself, and their wives by themselves;
ZEC 12:14 all the tribes being left behind, a tribe by itself, and their wives by themselves.
ZEC 13:1 In that day every place will be opening wide to the house of David and to the ones dwelling in Jerusalem for the removal and for the sprinkling.
ZEC 13:2 And it will be in that day, says the LORD of Hosts, I will utterly destroy the names of the idols from the land, and there will not be any longer a memory of them. And the false prophets and the unclean spirit I will remove from the land.
ZEC 13:3 And it will be if a man should prophesy still, and his father and his mother shall say to him, the ones engendering him, You shall not live, for you spoke lies upon the name of the LORD. Then they shall bind him (his father and his mother engendering him) at his prophesying.
ZEC 13:4 And it will be in that day the prophets shall be disgraced, each at his vision, when he prophesies; and they shall put on a hair hide covering, because they lied.
ZEC 13:5 And he shall say, I am not a prophet, for I am a man working the ground; for a man engendered me from my youth.
ZEC 13:6 And I will say to him, What are these wounds in the middle of your hands? And he will say, The ones which I was struck in by the house of my beloved.
ZEC 13:7 O broadsword, awaken against my shepherds, and against a man, my fellow-countryman, says the LORD almighty! Strike the shepherd, and the sheep were dispersed! And I will bring my hand upon the shepherds.
ZEC 13:8 And it will be in that day, says the LORD, the two parts shall be utterly destroyed, and shall cease; but the third part shall be left in it.
ZEC 13:9 And I will lead the third part through fire, and I will purify them as silver is fired; and I will try them as gold is tried. He will call upon my name, and I will heed him. And I will say, This is my people. And he shall say, The LORD is my God.
ZEC 14:1 Behold, days of the LORD come, and your spoils shall be divided among you.
ZEC 14:2 And I will assemble all the nations against Jerusalem for battle; and the city shall be captured, and the houses shall be plundered, and the women shall be tainted; and shall come forth half the city into captivity, and the rest of my people in no way shall be utterly destroyed from the city.
ZEC 14:3 And the LORD shall come forth, and shall deploy against those nations, as the day of his battle array in the day of war.
ZEC 14:4 And his feet shall stand in that day upon the mount of olives, the one over against Jerusalem according to the east; and the mount of olives shall split, half of it towards the east and west, an exceedingly great chaos; and half of the mountain shall lean towards the north, and half of it towards the south.
ZEC 14:5 And the valley of my mountains shall be obstructed; and the ravine shall be joined together by mountains unto Azal. And it shall be obstructed in which manner it was obstructed from in front of the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. And the LORD my God shall come, and all the holy ones with him.
ZEC 14:6 And it will be in that day there shall not be light; but chilliness and ice.
ZEC 14:7 It shall be one day, and that day shall be known to the LORD, and neither day nor night, and towards evening it shall be light.
ZEC 14:8 And it shall be in that day shall come forth living water from out of Jerusalem; the half of it into the foremost sea, and the half of it into the latter sea; in summer and in spring thus it will be,
ZEC 14:9 (And the LORD will be for king over all the earth. In that day there shall be one LORD, and his name one,
ZEC 14:10 encircling all the earth,) and the wilderness - from Geba unto Rimmon according to the south of Jerusalem. And Rama shall remain in its place; from the gate of Benjamin unto the place of the first gate, and unto the gate of the corners, and unto the tower of Hananeel, unto the wine-vats of the king.
ZEC 14:11 And they shall dwell in it, and it will not be anathema any longer; and Jerusalem shall dwell securely.
ZEC 14:12 And this will be the downfall in which the LORD shall smite all the peoples, as many as marched against Jerusalem - Their flesh shall melt away while standing upon their feet, and their eyes shall flow from out of their openings, and their tongue shall melt away in their mouth.
ZEC 14:13 And there will be in that day a great astonishment from the LORD upon them; and they shall take hold each the hand of his neighbor, and shall closely join his hand to the hand of his neighbor.
ZEC 14:14 And Judah shall deploy in Jerusalem; and shall bring together the strength of all the peoples round about - gold, and silver, and clothes into abundance exceedingly.
ZEC 14:15 And this will be the downfall of the horses, and the mules, and the camels, and the donkeys, and of all the cattle being in those camps, according to this downfall.
ZEC 14:16 And it will be as many as should be left of all the nations coming against Jerusalem, that they shall ascend by year to do obeisance to the king, to the LORD almighty, and to solemnize the holiday of the pitching of tents.
ZEC 14:17 And it will be as many as should not ascend from out of all the tribes of the earth unto Jerusalem to do obeisance to the king, to the LORD almighty, and these things shall be added to those - there shall not be rain upon them.
ZEC 14:18 And if the tribe of Egypt should not ascend, nor come, then upon these will be the downfall which the LORD struck all the nations, as many as should not ascend to solemnize the holiday of the pitching of tents.
ZEC 14:19 This will be the sin of Egypt, and the sin of all the nations which ever should not ascend to solemnize the holiday of the pitching of tents.
ZEC 14:20 In that day there will be upon the bridle of the horse, Holy to the LORD Almighty; and the kettles in the house of the LORD will be as bowls before the face of the altar.
ZEC 14:21 And it will be every kettle in Jerusalem and in Judah holy to the LORD almighty. And all the ones sacrificing shall come and shall take of them, and they shall cook with them. And there will not be any longer the Canaanite in the house of the LORD of the forces in that day.
MAL 1:1 The concern of the word of the LORD over Israel by the hand of his messenger.
MAL 1:2 I loved you, says the LORD. And you said, You loved us in what? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? says the LORD; and I loved Jacob.
MAL 1:3 And Esau I detested, and I ordered up his borders for extinction, and his inheritance for domiciles of the wilderness.
MAL 1:4 For Edom will say, He was eradicated, and we should return and should rebuild places having been made desolate; thus says the LORD almighty, They shall build, and I shall eradicate; and it shall be called by them, Borders of lawlessness, and, A people against whom the LORD deployed unto the eon.
MAL 1:5 And your eyes shall see, and you shall say, The LORD was magnified up above the borders of Israel.
MAL 1:6 A son glorifies a father, and a servant his master. And if I am father, where is my glory? And if I am the LORD, where is the fear of me? says the LORD almighty. You, the priests, are the ones treating my name as worthless. And you said, We treated your name as worthless in what way?
MAL 1:7 In bringing to my altar polluted breads; and you say, We polluted in what? In your saying, The table of the LORD is polluted; and the things being placed upon it are thereby with contempt.
MAL 1:8 For if you should bring a blind animal for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if you should bring the lame or ill, is it not evil? Bring it indeed to him leading you; shall he favorably receive you, shall he receive your person? says the LORD almighty.
MAL 1:9 And now, atone the face of your God, and beseech him! By your hands these have taken place. Shall I receive from your person your things? says the LORD almighty.
MAL 1:10 For even among you the doors shall be closed, and you shall not light my altar gratuitously. There is not of me anything wanting among you, says the LORD almighty. A sacrifice I shall not favorably receive from out of your hands.
MAL 1:11 For from the rising of the sun, and unto the descent, my name was glorified among the nations; and in every place incense is brought in my name - even a pure sacrifice. For great is my name among the nations, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 1:12 But you profane it in your saying, The table of the LORD is polluted; and his foods placed upon it are with contempt.
MAL 1:13 And you said, Behold, it is troublesome; and you blew them away, says the LORD almighty; and you carried in the prey, and the lame, and the troubled - and thus you carried in the sacrifice. Shall I favorably receive them from your hands? says the LORD almighty.
MAL 1:14 And accursed be the man who was mighty, and a male existed among his flock, and his vow was upon him, and he sacrifices a thing being corrupted to the LORD. For I am a great king, says the LORD almighty, and my name is prominent among the nations.
MAL 2:1 And now, this commandment is to you, O priests.
MAL 2:2 If you should not hearken, and if you should not put it into your heart, to give glory to my name, says the LORD almighty, then I will send upon you the curse, and I will accurse your blessing - even I will curse it; and it will not be among you, for you put it not to the heart.
MAL 2:3 Behold, I separate to you the shoulder, and I will disperse dung of the large intestine upon your faces, dung of the large intestine of your holiday feasts; and I will take you away at the same time.
MAL 2:4 And you shall realize that I sent out to you this commandment, to be my covenant with the Levites, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 2:5 My covenant was with him, the one of life and of peace; and I gave to him fear, to fear me; and from the presence of my name, to put him in readiness.
MAL 2:6 The law of truth was in his mouth, and injustice was not found in his lips. In peace he straightened out to go with me, and many he turned from iniquity.
MAL 2:7 For lips of priests shall guard knowledge, and they shall seek the law from his mouth; for he is a messenger of the LORD almighty.
MAL 2:8 But you turned aside from the way, and weakened many in following the law; you corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 2:9 And I have given you over as ones being with contempt, and ones being disregarded among all the nations, because you guarded not my ways, but you took persons in the law.
MAL 2:10 Is there not one father of all of you? Did not one God create you? For what reason did each of you abandon his brother, to profane the covenant of your fathers?
MAL 2:11 Judah abandoned, and an abomination took place in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah profaned the holy things of the LORD in which he loved, and applied unto alien gods.
MAL 2:12 The LORD will utterly destroy the man doing these things, until whenever he should be humbled from out of the tents of Jacob, and from out of the ones bringing a sacrifice to the LORD almighty.
MAL 2:13 And these things which I detested you did. You covered the altar of the LORD in tears, in weeping, and moaning, because of troubles, yet thinking it worthy to look upon your sacrifice, or to take as acceptable from out of your hands.
MAL 2:14 And you said, For what reason? In that the LORD testified between you and between the wife of your youth, whom you abandoned. And she is your partner, and the wife of your covenant.
MAL 2:15 And even a vestige of his spirit did not do good. And you said, What other than a seed does God seek? But guard in your spirit, and the wife of your youth do not abandon!
MAL 2:16 But if by detesting, you should send her forth, says the LORD God of Israel, then impiety shall cover over your thoughts, says the LORD God almighty. And keep guard in your spirit, and in no way should you abandon them,
MAL 2:17 O ones provoking the LORD with your words. And you said, We provoked him in what? In your saying, Every one doing wicked is good before the LORD, and in them he thinks well of; and, Where is the God of righteousness?
MAL 3:1 Behold, I send out my messenger who shall prepare the way before my face. And the LORD whom you seek shall suddenly come into his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom you want. Behold, he comes, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 3:2 And who will endure the day of his entrance? or who shall stand at his apparition? For he enters as fire of a foundry furnace, and as lye of ones washing.
MAL 3:3 And he shall sit as one casting in a furnace, and one cleansing as it were silver. And he shall cleanse the sons of Levi, and shall pour them as the gold and as the silver, that they will be to the LORD ones bringing sacrifices in righteousness.
MAL 3:4 And the sacrifice of Judah and Jerusalem shall please the LORD, as in the days of the eon, and as the years before.
MAL 3:5 And I will come forward to you in judgment; and I will be a quick witness against the administers of potions, and against the adulterers, and against the ones swearing by an oath in my name for a lie, and against the ones depriving a wage of a hireling, and tyrannizing over the widow, and smiting orphans, and turning aside a right judgment of a foreigner - and they are the ones not fearing me, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 3:6 For I am the LORD your God - I change not.
MAL 3:7 But you sons of Jacob are not kept at a distance from the sins of your fathers. You turned aside from my laws, and guarded not. Return to me, and I shall be turned towards you, says the LORD almighty! But you said, In what way should we turn?
MAL 3:8 Shall a man stomp on God? For you stomp on me. And you said, We stomped on you in what? In that the tenth parts, and the first-fruits are with you.
MAL 3:9 And looking away, you look away, and me you stomp on.
MAL 3:10 The year is completed, and you carried in all the resources into the storehouses, and there will be the ravaging in your houses. Restore indeed in this, says the LORD almighty, if I should not open to you the torrents of the heaven, and pour out to you my blessing until it is enough!
MAL 3:11 And I will draw apart to you for food, and in no way will I utterly destroy the fruit of the land; and in no way should it be weakened upon your grapevine in the field, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 3:12 And all the nations shall declare you happy. For you will be a wanted land, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 3:13 You weighed down against me by your words, says the LORD. And you said, We spoke ill against you in what?
MAL 3:14 You said, The one serving God is vain. and, What more is it, that we kept his injunctions, and that we go as supplicants before the face of the LORD almighty?
MAL 3:15 And now we declare aliens blessed; and all the ones doing lawless deeds are built up; and they opposed God, and were preserved.
MAL 3:16 The ones fearing the LORD spoke these things each to his neighbor. And the LORD heeded, and hearkened, and wrote a scroll of memorial before him to the ones fearing the LORD, and venerating his name.
MAL 3:17 And they will be to me, says the LORD almighty, in the day which I prepare for a procurement. And I will select them in which manner a man selects his son serving to him.
MAL 3:18 Then shall you be turned, and you shall see between the just one and the wrongdoer; and between the one serving God and the one not serving to him.
MAL 4:1 For behold, a day comes, burning as an oven; and it shall blaze against them. And all the foreigners will be, and all the ones doing lawless deeds, as stubble. And the day coming shall light them, says the LORD of the forces. And in no way shall there be left of them root nor vine branch.
MAL 4:2 And to you, O ones fearing my name, shall arise sun of righteousness, and healing is in his wings; and you shall come forth, and shall leap as young calves being spared from out of bonds.
MAL 4:3 And you shall trample the lawless ones. And they will be ashes underneath your feet in the day which I prepare, says the LORD almighty.
MAL 4:4 Remember the law of Moses my manservant, in so far as I gave charge to him in Horeb for all Israel - orders and judgments!
MAL 4:5 And behold, I will send to you Elijah the prophet before the coming day of the LORD - the great and apparent;
MAL 4:6 the one who shall restore the heart of the father to the son, and the heart of a man to his neighbor, lest coming I strike the earth entirely.
MAT 1:1 The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham.
MAT 1:2 Abraham engendered Isaac; and Isaac engendered Jacob; and Jacob engendered Judah and his brothers;
MAT 1:3 and Judah engendered Perez and Zara from Thamar; and Perez engendered Esrom; and Esrom engendered Aram;
MAT 1:4 and Aram engendered Aminadab; and Aminadab engendered Naasson; and Naasson engendered Salmon;
MAT 1:5 and Salmon engendered Boaz from Rachab; and Boaz engendered Obed from Ruth; and Obed engendered Jesse;
MAT 1:6 and Jesse engendered David the king; and David the king engendered Solomon from the wife of Urias;
MAT 1:7 and Solomon engendered Rehoboam; and Rehoboam engendered Abia; and Abia engendered Asa;
MAT 1:8 and Asa engendered Jehoshaphat; and Jehoshaphat engendered Joram; and Joram engendered Uzziah;
MAT 1:9 and Uzziah engendered Jotham; and Jotham engendered Ahaz; and Ahaz engendered Hezekiah;
MAT 1:10 and Hezekiah engendered Manasseh; and Manasseh engendered Amon; and Amon engendered Josiah;
MAT 1:11 and Josiah engendered Jechoniah and his brothers, unto the displacement in Babylon.
MAT 1:12 And after the displacement of Babylon, Jechoniah engendered Salathiel; and Salathiel engendered Zorobabel;
MAT 1:13 and Zorobbabel engendered Abiud; and Abiud engendered Eliakim; and Eliakim engendered Azor;
MAT 1:14 and Azor engendered Zadok; and Zadok engendered Achim; and Achim engendered Eliud;
MAT 1:15 and Eliud engendered Eleazar; and Eleazar engendered Matthan; and Matthan engendered Jacob;
MAT 1:16 and Jacob engendered Joseph the husband of Mary, from out of whom was born Jesus, being called Christ.
MAT 1:17 All then the generations from Abraham unto David - fourteen generations; and from David unto the displacement of Babylon - fourteen generations; and from the displacement of Babylon unto the Christ - fourteen generations.
MAT 1:18 And the nativity of Jesus Christ was thus. For his mother Mary being espoused to Joseph, (before their coming together) was found having one in the womb from holy spirit.
MAT 1:19 And Joseph her husband, being just, and not wanting to make her an example, willed in private to dismiss her.
MAT 1:20 And of his pondering these things, behold, an angel of the Lord by dream appeared to him, saying, Joseph son of David, fear not to take to yourself Mary your wife, for the one in her is engendered from holy spirit.
MAT 1:21 And she shall bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus; for he shall deliver his people from their sins.
MAT 1:22 And this completely happened, that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying,
MAT 1:23 Behold, the virgin has one in the womb, and she shall birth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is being translated, God with us.
MAT 1:24 And Joseph having been awakened from the sleep did as the angel of the Lord assigned to him, and took to himself his wife.
MAT 1:25 And he knew her not until of which she bore her first-born son. And he called his name Jesus.
MAT 2:1 And of Jesus having been born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, magi from the east came unto Jerusalem,
MAT 2:2 saying, Where is the one having been born king of the Jews? for we beheld his star in the east, and we came to do obeisance to him.
MAT 2:3 And hearing, Herod the king was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him.
MAT 2:4 And gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ is born.
MAT 2:5 And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For thus it has been written by the prophet,
MAT 2:6 And you Bethlehem, land of Judea, are not at all least in the governs of Judea. For from out of you shall come forth one leading, who shall tend my people Israel.
MAT 2:7 Then Herod, in private having called the magi, exacted from them the time of the star appearing.
MAT 2:8 And having sent them unto Bethlehem, he said, Having gone, exactly inquire concerning the child! And when you should have found, report to me, so that I also having come should do obeisance to him.
MAT 2:9 And they, having heard the king, went. And behold, the star which they beheld in the east, led before them, until having come it stood above of which place the child was.
MAT 2:10 And beholding the star, they rejoiced a great joy, exceedingly.
MAT 2:11 And having come unto the residence, they saw the child with Mary his mother; and having fallen, they did obeisance to him. And having opened their treasuries, they offered to him gifts - gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.
MAT 2:12 And having received a divine message by dream to not return to Herod, they withdrew by another way unto their place.
MAT 2:13 And of their withdrawing, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared by dream to Joseph, saying, Having arisen, take to yourself the child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be there until whenever I should speak to you! for Herod is about to seek the child to destroy it.
MAT 2:14 And having arisen, he took to himself the child and his mother by night, and withdrew into Egypt.
MAT 2:15 And he was there until the decease of Herod; that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, From out of Egypt I called my son.
MAT 2:16 Then Herod, knowing that he was mocked by the magi, was enraged exceedingly. And having sent, he did away with all the boys in Bethlehem, and in all the borders of it, from two years old and lower, according to the time which was exacted from the magi.
MAT 2:17 Then was fulfilled the thing having been spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying,
MAT 2:18 A voice in Rama was heard, wailing and weeping, and much grieving, Rachel weeping over her children, and she wanted not to be comforted, for they are not.
MAT 2:19 And Herod having come to an end, behold, an angel of the Lord by dream appears to Joseph in Egypt,
MAT 2:20 saying, Having arisen, take to yourself the child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel! for the ones seeking the life of the child have died.
MAT 2:21 And having arisen, he took to himself the child and his mother, and he came into the land of Israel.
MAT 2:22 And having heard that Archelaus reigned over Judea instead of Herod his father, he feared to go forth there. And having received a divine message by dream, he withdrew into the parts of Galilee.
MAT 2:23 And having come, he dwelt in a city being called Nazareth, so that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken through the prophets that he shall be called a Nazarene.
MAT 3:1 And in those days came John the Baptist proclaiming in the wilderness of Judea,
MAT 3:2 and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens approaches!
MAT 3:3 For this is the thing having been spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, A voice yelling in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord! Make straight his roads!
MAT 3:4 And he, John, had his garment from camel's hair, and a belt made of skin around his loin; and his nourishment was locusts and wild honey.
MAT 3:5 Then came forth to him Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the place round about the Jordan.
MAT 3:6 And they were immersed in the Jordan by him, acknowledging their sins.
MAT 3:7 And beholding many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming upon his immersion, he said to them, Offspring of vipers, who showed plainly to you to flee from the about to come anger?
MAT 3:8 Do then fruits worthy of repentance!
MAT 3:9 And you should not seem to say in yourselves, We have father Abraham. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from out of these stones.
MAT 3:10 But already even the axe to the root of the trees is situated. For every tree not producing good fruit is cut down, and thrown into fire.
MAT 3:11 I indeed immerse you in water for repentance. But the one coming after me is stronger than me, of whom I am not fit to bear the sandals. He shall immerse you in holy spirit, and fire;
MAT 3:12 of which the winnowing fan is in his hand, and he shall thoroughly cleanse his threshing-floor, and shall gather together his grain into the storehouse; but the straw he shall incinerate by inextinguishable fire.
MAT 3:13 Then comes Jesus from Galilee unto the Jordan to John, to be immersed by him.
MAT 3:14 And John restrains him, saying, I have need to be immersed by you, and you come to me?
MAT 3:15 And answering Jesus said to him, Allow it just now! For to this it is becoming to us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allows him.
MAT 3:16 And Jesus having been immersed, ascended straightway from the water; and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he beheld the spirit of God coming down as a dove, and coming upon him.
MAT 3:17 And behold, a voice from out of the heavens, saying, This is my son, the beloved, in whom I take pleasure.
MAT 4:1 Then Jesus was led into the wilderness by the spirit to be tested by the devil.
MAT 4:2 And he fasted forty days and forty nights, afterwards he hungered.
MAT 4:3 And having come forward to him, the one testing said, If you are son of God, speak, that these stones should become breads!
MAT 4:4 And responding he said, It has been written, Not by bread alone shall a man live, but by every word coming forth by the mouth of God.
MAT 4:5 Then the devil takes him unto the holy city, and stands him upon the border of the temple.
MAT 4:6 And he says to him, If you are son of God, throw yourself below! For it has been written that, To his angels he shall give charge concerning you, And By hands they shall lift you, lest at any time you should stumble your foot against a stone.
MAT 4:7 Jesus said to him, Again it has been written, You shall not put to test the Lord your God.
MAT 4:8 Again, the devil takes him unto an exceedingly high mountain, and shows to him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory.
MAT 4:9 And he says to him, All these I will give to you, if falling down you should do obeisance to me.
MAT 4:10 Then Jesus says to him, Go behind me Satan! For it is written, You shall do obeisance to the Lord your God, and to him alone you shall serve.
MAT 4:11 Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came forward and served to him.
MAT 4:12 And Jesus having heard that John was delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee.
MAT 4:13 And leaving Nazareth, coming, he dwelt in Capernaum by the sea, in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali,
MAT 4:14 that the word through Isaiah the prophet should be fulfilled, saying,
MAT 4:15 Land of Zebulun, and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, on the other side of the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
MAT 4:16 The people sitting in darkness beheld a great light, and to the ones sitting in a place and shadow of death light arose to them.
MAT 4:17 From then Jesus began to proclaim and to say, Repent! For the kingdom of the heavens approaches.
MAT 4:18 And Jesus walking by the sea of Galilee beheld two brothers - Simon the one being called Peter, and Andrew his brother, throwing a casting-net into the sea; for they were fishermen.
MAT 4:19 And he says to them, Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men!
MAT 4:20 And the one, immediately having left the nets, followed him.
MAT 4:21 And advancing from there, he beheld another two brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, readying their nets; and he called them.
MAT 4:22 And, immediately having left the boat and their father, they followed him.
MAT 4:23 And Jesus led about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and curing every disease and every infirmity among the people.
MAT 4:24 And went forth the report of him into all Syria. And they brought to him all the ones having an illness with various diseases, and being held by torments, and ones being demon-possessed, and ones acting as lunatic, and paralytics; and he cured them.
MAT 4:25 And great multitudes followed him from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and on the other side of the Jordan.
MAT 5:1 And beholding the multitudes, he ascended into the mountain. And of his having sat, there came forward to him his disciples.
MAT 5:2 And having opened his mouth, he taught them, saying,
MAT 5:3 Blessed are the poor in the spirit; for of them is the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 5:4 Blessed are the ones mourning; for they shall be comforted.
MAT 5:5 Blessed are the gentle; for they shall inherit the earth.
MAT 5:6 Blessed are the ones hungering and thirsting for righteousness; for they shall be filled.
MAT 5:7 Blessed are the merciful; for they shall be shown mercy.
MAT 5:8 Blessed are the clean ones in the heart; for they shall see God.
MAT 5:9 Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called sons of God.
MAT 5:10 Blessed are the ones having been persecuted because of righteousness; for of them is the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 5:11 Blessed are you, whenever they should berate you, and persecute, and shall say every wicked saying against you in lying, because of me.
MAT 5:12 Rejoice, and exult! for your wage is great in the heavens. For so they persecuted the prophets before you.
MAT 5:13 You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt becomes insipid, by what means shall it be salted? For it is strong for nothing any longer, unless to be thrown outside, and to be trampled by the men.
MAT 5:14 You are the light of the world. A city is not able to hide being situated upon a mountain.
MAT 5:15 Nor do they burn a lamp, and put it under the bushel, but upon the lamp-stand, and it radiates to all the ones in the house.
MAT 5:16 So let your light radiate before the men, so that they should behold your good works, and should glorify your father, the one in the heavens.
MAT 5:17 You should not think that I came to depose the law, or the prophets. I came not to depose, but to fulfill.
MAT 5:18 For amen I say to you, Until whenever the heaven and the earth shall pass away, in no way should pass from the law one iota or one dot, until whenever all comes to pass.
MAT 5:19 Who ever then should untie one of the least of these commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of the heavens. And who ever should do and should teach, this one shall be called great in the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 5:20 For I say to you, That if your righteousness should not abound greater than of the scribes and Pharisees, in no way should you enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 5:21 You heard that it was said to the ancients, You shall not murder; and who ever should murder shall be liable to the judgment.
MAT 5:22 But I say to you, That all provoking to anger his brother in vain shall be liable to the judgment. And who ever should say to his brother, Worthless! shall be liable to the sanhedrin. And who ever should say, O moron! shall be liable for the Gehenna of fire.
MAT 5:23 If then you should offer your gift offering upon the altar, and there should remember that your brother has something against you;
MAT 5:24 leave there your gift offering before the altar, and go away! First to reconcile to your brother, and then having come offer your gift offering!
MAT 5:25 Be well-disposed towards your opponent quickly, at wherever you are in the way with him, lest at any time the opponent should deliver you up to the judge, and the judge should deliver you up to the officer, and he should throw you into prison!
MAT 5:26 Amen, I say to you, In no way should you come forth from there, until whenever you should deliver over the last quadrans.
MAT 5:27 You heard that it was said to the ancients, You shall not commit adultery.
MAT 5:28 But I say to you, That all looking at a wife for lusting her, already committed adultery with her in his heart.
MAT 5:29 And if your right eye causes you to stumble, take it out, and throw it from you! For it is advantageous to you that one of your members should be destroyed, and your entire body should not be thrown into Gehenna.
MAT 5:30 And if your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off, and throw it from you! For it is advantageous to you that one of your members should be destroyed, and your entire body should not be thrown into Gehenna.
MAT 5:31 Also it was said, That who ever should dismiss his wife, let him give to her a certificate of divorce.
MAT 5:32 But I say to you, That who ever should dismiss his wife, except for the matter of harlotry, makes her to commit adultery; and who ever should marry a woman being divorced commits adultery.
MAT 5:33 Again, you heard that it was said to the ancients, You shall not swear upon, but shall render to the Lord your oaths.
MAT 5:34 But I say to you, Do not swear by an oath wholly; nor on the heaven; for it is the throne of God.
MAT 5:35 Nor on the earth; for it is the footstool of his feet. Nor on Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great king.
MAT 5:36 Nor on your head should you swear by an oath, for you are not able to make one hair white or black.
MAT 5:37 But let be your word - a yes, Yes! a no, No! but anything extra than these is of the wicked one.
MAT 5:38 You heard that it was said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
MAT 5:39 But I say to you, to not oppose the wicked one. But whoever slaps you upon your right jaw, turn to him also the other!
MAT 5:40 And to the one wanting to arbitrate against you, and to take your garment, leave to him also your cloak!
MAT 5:41 And whoever conscripts you to go one mile, go with him two!
MAT 5:42 To the one asking you, give! And the one wanting from you to borrow, you should not turn away.
MAT 5:43 You heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor, and you shall detest your enemy.
MAT 5:44 But I say to you, Love your enemies! Bless the ones cursing you! Do well to the ones detesting you! And pray for the ones threatening you, and persecuting you!
MAT 5:45 So that you should become sons of your father in the heavens. For his sun rises upon wicked ones and good ones, and it rains upon just ones and unjust ones.
MAT 5:46 For if you should love the ones loving you, what wage have you? Do not also the tax collectors do the same?
MAT 5:47 And if you should greet your brothers only, what extra do you do? Do not also the tax collectors do the same?
MAT 5:48 You shall be then yourselves perfect, as your father in the heavens is perfect.
MAT 6:1 Take heed of your charity! To not act in front of the men so as to be a spectacle to them; otherwise you have not a wage from your father in the heavens.
MAT 6:2 Whenever then you should do charity, you should not trump before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they should be glorified by the men. Amen, I say to you, They receive their wage.
MAT 6:3 But you doing charity, let not your left hand know what your right does,
MAT 6:4 so that your charity might be in secret, and your father seeing in secret, he will recompense to you in the open!
MAT 6:5 And whenever you pray, you should not be as the hypocrites, for they are fond of being in the synagogues, and in the corners of the squares standing to pray, so that they should appear to the men. Amen, I say to you, That they receive their wage.
MAT 6:6 But you, whenever you should pray, enter into your inner chamber! And having locked your door, pray to your father in secret! And your father seeing in secret shall recompense to you in the open!
MAT 6:7 And praying, do not repeat over and over as the ethnics; for they think that by the many words of theirs they shall be listened to.
MAT 6:8 You should not then be like them. For your father knows of what need you have before you ask him.
MAT 6:9 So then you pray! Our father, the one in the heavens, sanctify your name!
MAT 6:10 Let your kingdom come! Let your will come to pass! as in heaven, also upon the earth.
MAT 6:11 Our bread, the sufficient, give to us today!
MAT 6:12 And forgive us our debts, as also we forgive our debtors!
MAT 6:13 And you should not insert us for a test, but rescue us from the wicked one! For of you is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, into the eons, amen.
MAT 6:14 For if you should forgive men their transgressions, your heavenly father shall also forgive you.
MAT 6:15 But if you should not forgive the men their transgressions, not even your heavenly father shall forgive your transgressions.
MAT 6:16 And whenever you should fast, be not as the hypocrites, looking downcast! For they obliterate their faces, so as to appear to men as fasting. Amen, I say to you, That they receive their wage.
MAT 6:17 But you, fasting, anoint your head, and wash your face!
MAT 6:18 So that you should not appear to men as fasting, but to your father in secret. And your father seeing in secret shall recompense to you in the open.
MAT 6:19 Treasure not to yourself treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust obliterate, and where thieves dig through and steal!
MAT 6:20 But treasure up to yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust obliterate, and where thieves do not dig through nor steal!
MAT 6:21 For where your treasure is, there will be also your heart.
MAT 6:22 The lamp of the body is the eye. If then your eye should be sincere, your entire body will be giving light.
MAT 6:23 But if your eye should be evil, your entire body will be dark. If then the light in you is darkness, how great the darkness.
MAT 6:24 No one is able to serve two masters; for the one he will detest, and the other love; or the one he will hold to, and the other he will disdain. You are not able to serve God and mammon.
MAT 6:25 On account of this I say to you, Be not anxious to your life, what you should eat, and what you should drink; nor to your body, what you should put on! Is not life more than nourishment, and the body more than a garment?
MAT 6:26 Look at the birds of the heaven! For they sow not, nor do they harvest, nor do they gather together into storehouses - and your heavenly father maintains them. Are you not rather different than them?
MAT 6:27 And who of you being anxious is able to add unto his stature one cubit?
MAT 6:28 And concerning a garment - why are you anxious? Study the lilies of the field, how they grow - they tire not, nor spin!
MAT 6:29 And I say to you, That not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed as one of these.
MAT 6:30 But if the grass of the field today is being, and tomorrow is being thrown into an oven, and God so clothes them - not much rather you, O ones of little belief?
MAT 6:31 You should not then be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or What shall we drink? or What should be worn?
MAT 6:32 (For all these the nations seek anxiously.) For your heavenly father knows that you need these all together.
MAT 6:33 But seek first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness! and all these will be added to you.
MAT 6:34 You should not then be anxious for tomorrow; for tomorrow shall be anxious for the things of itself. Sufficient to the day is the evil of it.
MAT 7:1 Judge not, that you should not be judged!
MAT 7:2 For by what judgment you judge, you shall be judged. And by what measure you measure, it shall be measured back to you.
MAT 7:3 But why do you see the speck in the eye of your brother, but the beam in your eye you contemplate not?
MAT 7:4 Or how shall you say to your brother, Allow me to cast out the speck from your eye; and behold, the beam is in your eye?
MAT 7:5 Hypocrite, cast out first the beam from your eye! and then you shall see clearly to cast out the speck from the eye of your brother.
MAT 7:6 You should not give the holy to the dogs, nor should you throw your pearls before the swine, lest at any time they shall trample them with their feet, and having turned should tear you.
MAT 7:7 Ask, and it shall be given to you! Seek, and you shall find! Knock, and it shall be opened to you!
MAT 7:8 For every one asking receives; and the one seeking finds; and to the one knocking it shall be opened.
MAT 7:9 Or who is it of you, being a man, whom ever his son should ask for bread, will give to him a stone?
MAT 7:10 And if he shall ask for a fish, will give to him a serpent?
MAT 7:11 If then you, being wicked, know to give good gifts to your children, how much rather your father in the heavens shall give good things to the ones asking him?
MAT 7:12 All things then, as much as you should want that men should do to you, so also you do to them! For this is the law and the prophets!
MAT 7:13 Enter through the narrow gate! For spacious is the gate, and broad is the way leading unto destruction, and many are the ones entering through it.
MAT 7:14 For narrow is the gate, and being afflicted is the way leading unto life, and few are the ones finding it.
MAT 7:15 And take heed of the false prophets who come to you in garments of sheep, but inside are predacious wolves!
MAT 7:16 From their fruits you shall recognize them. Do they collect together the grape from thorn-bushes, or figs from thistles?
MAT 7:17 Thus every good tree produces good fruits; but the rotten tree produces bad fruits.
MAT 7:18 A good tree is not able to produce bad fruits, nor a rotten tree to produce good fruits.
MAT 7:19 All trees not producing good fruit are cut down, and thrown into a fire.
MAT 7:20 Yes, it is so - from their fruits you shall recognize them.
MAT 7:21 Not all saying to me, O Lord, O Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens; but the one doing the will of my father in heavens.
MAT 7:22 Many shall say to me in that day, O Lord, O Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name do many powerful works?
MAT 7:23 And then I will acknowledge to them that, At no time I knew you. Retreat from me, O ones working lawlessness!
MAT 7:24 Every one then whoever hears these my words, and does them, I will liken him to a practical man, who built his house upon the rock.
MAT 7:25 And the rain came down, and the rivers came, and the winds blew, and they fell on that house; and it fell not. For the foundation was laid upon the rock.
MAT 7:26 And all hearing these my words, and not doing them, shall be likened to a moronish man who built his house upon the sand.
MAT 7:27 And the rain came down, and the rivers came, and the winds blew, and struck against that house; and it fell. And its downfall was great.
MAT 7:28 And it came to pass, when Jesus completed these words, the multitudes were overwhelmed by his teaching.
MAT 7:29 For he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.
MAT 8:1 And in his coming down from the mountain, a great multitude followed him.
MAT 8:2 And behold, a leper having come did obeisance to him, saying, O Lord, if you should want, you are able to cleanse me.
MAT 8:3 And stretching out the hand, Jesus touched him, saying, I want, be cleansed! And immediately he was cleansed of his leprosy.
MAT 8:4 And Jesus says to him, See that you tell no one! But go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift offering Moses assigned for a testimony to them!
MAT 8:5 And Jesus having entered into Capernaum, there came forward to him a centurion, enjoining him,
MAT 8:6 and saying, O Lord, my servant is lying in the house paralytic, being tormented awfully.
MAT 8:7 And Jesus says to him, I coming shall cure him.
MAT 8:8 And responding the centurion said, O Lord, I am not fit that you should enter under my roof; but only speak the word, and my servant shall be healed!
MAT 8:9 For I also am a man under authority, having under myself soldiers. And I say to this one, Go! and he goes. And to another, Come! and he comes. And to my manservant, Do this! and he does it.
MAT 8:10 And hearing, Jesus marveled, and said to the ones following, Amen I say to you, Not even in Israel found I such great belief.
MAT 8:11 And I say to you, That many from east and west shall come, and shall be lain down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 8:12 But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast out into the outer darkness; there, there shall be weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
MAT 8:13 And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, and as you trusted, let it be to you! And his servant was healed in that hour.
MAT 8:14 And Jesus having come into the house of Peter, he beheld his mother-in-law lying, and having a fever.
MAT 8:15 And he touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she arose, and served to them.
MAT 8:16 And becoming late, they brought near to him many being demon-possessed. And he cast out the spirits by a word, and all having an illness he cured;
MAT 8:17 so that might be fulfilled the thing having been spoken through Isaiah the prophet saying, He himself took our weaknesses, and bore the diseases.
MAT 8:18 And Jesus beholding great multitudes around him, bid to go forth unto the other side.
MAT 8:19 And having come forward, one scribe said to him, Teacher, I will follow you where ever you should go forth.
MAT 8:20 And Jesus says to him, The foxes have dens, and the birds of the heaven shelters; but the son of man has not where he should lean the head.
MAT 8:21 And another of his disciples said to him, O Lord, commit to my care to me first to go forth and bury my father!
MAT 8:22 But Jesus said to him, Follow me; and allow the dead to bury their own dead!
MAT 8:23 And in his stepping into the boat, his disciples followed him.
MAT 8:24 And behold, a great quaking took place on the sea, so as to cover the boat under the waves; but he was sleeping.
MAT 8:25 And his disciples coming forward roused him, saying, O Lord, save us, we perish!
MAT 8:26 And he says to them, Why are you timid, O ones of little belief? Then having arisen, he reproached the winds and the sea; and there became a great calm.
MAT 8:27 And the men marveled, saying, What kind is this one, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
MAT 8:28 And in his coming unto the other side unto the place of the Gergesenes, there encountered to him two demon-possessed, coming forth from out of the sepulchres, exceedingly ill-tempered, so that not were able any to go by that way.
MAT 8:29 And behold, they cried out, saying, What is it to us and to you, Jesus, O son of God? Are you come here before time to torment us?
MAT 8:30 And there was far from them a herd of swine of many grazing.
MAT 8:31 And the daimons enjoined him, saying, If you cast us out, commission us to go forth into the herd of the swine!
MAT 8:32 And he said to them, Go! And having gone forth, they departed into the herd of the swine. And behold, all the herd of the swine advanced down the precipice into the sea, and they died in the waters.
MAT 8:33 And the ones grazing fled. And having gone forth into the city, they reported all, and the things of the ones being demon-possessed.
MAT 8:34 And behold, all the city came forth to meet with Jesus. And seeing him, they enjoined him how he should cross over from their borders.
MAT 9:1 And stepping into the boat, he passed through, and came unto his own city.
MAT 9:2 And behold, they brought to him a paralytic lying upon a bed. And Jesus beholding their belief, said to the paralytic; Courage child, your sins have been forgiven you!
MAT 9:3 And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, This one blasphemes.
MAT 9:4 And Jesus knowing their thinking, said, Why do you ponder wicked things in your hearts?
MAT 9:5 For what is easier, to say, The sins have been forgiven to you; or to say, Arise, and walk!
MAT 9:6 But so that you should know that the son of man has authority over the earth to forgive sins - then he says to the paralytic, Having arisen, lift up your bed, and go unto your house!
MAT 9:7 And having arisen, he went forth unto his house.
MAT 9:8 And the multitudes having seen, marveled, and glorified God, the one giving such authority to men.
MAT 9:9 And Jesus passing by there, beheld a man sitting down at the tax collector's station, being called Matthew. And he says to him, Follow me! And having arisen, he followed him.
MAT 9:10 And it came to pass of his reclining in the house, and behold, many tax collectors and sinners having come were reclining together with Jesus and his disciples.
MAT 9:11 And the Pharisees seeing, said to his disciples, Why with the tax collectors and sinners does your teacher eat?
MAT 9:12 And Jesus having heard, said to them, The ones being strong have not a need of a physician, but the ones having illnesses do.
MAT 9:13 But having gone learn what it is said, Mercy I want, and not sacrifice! For I came not to call the just, but sinners unto repentance.
MAT 9:14 Then came forward to him the disciples of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast much, but your disciples do not fast?
MAT 9:15 And Jesus said to them, the sons of the bridal chamber are not able to mourn as long as the groom is with them. But there shall come days whenever the groom departs from them, and then they shall fast.
MAT 9:16 But no one puts a piece of cloth of an unshrunk rag upon an old garment, for the fullness of it lifts away from the garment, and the split becomes worse.
MAT 9:17 Nor do they throw new wine into old leather bags; otherwise the leather bags are torn, and the wine pours out, and the leather bags they destroy. But they cast new wine into new leather bags, and both are preserved together.
MAT 9:18 In his speaking these things to them, behold, one ruler having come, did obeisance to him, saying that, My daughter just now came to an end; but having come, place your hand upon her, and she shall live!
MAT 9:19 And Jesus having arisen, followed him. and his disciples.
MAT 9:20 And behold, a woman hemorrhaging twelve years, having come forward behind, touched the decorative hem of his cloak.
MAT 9:21 For she said in herself, If only I should touch his cloak, I shall be delivered.
MAT 9:22 And Jesus having turned, and beholding her, said, Be of courage, daughter! your belief has delivered you. And the woman was delivered from that hour.
MAT 9:23 And Jesus having come into the house of the ruler, and beholding the pipers and the multitude making a disruption,
MAT 9:24 he says to them, Withdraw! for the young woman died not, but sleeps. And they ridiculed him.
MAT 9:25 But when the multitude was cast out, having entered, he held her hand, and the young woman arose.
MAT 9:26 And went forth this reputation into that entire land.
MAT 9:27 And in the passing from there of Jesus, there followed him two blind men, crying out and saying, Show mercy upon us, O son of David!
MAT 9:28 And having come into the house, there came forward to him the blind men. And Jesus says to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They say to him, Yes, O Lord.
MAT 9:29 Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your belief let it be to you!
MAT 9:30 And their eyes were opened; and Jesus strictly charged them, saying, See, you let no one know!
MAT 9:31 And they, having gone forth, spread of him abroad in that entire land.
MAT 9:32 And of their going forth, behold, they brought near to him a mute man being demon-possessed.
MAT 9:33 And having been cast out of the demon possessed man, the mute spoke. And the multitudes marveled, saying, At no time was such shown forth in Israel.
MAT 9:34 But the Pharisees said, By the ruler of the demons he casts out the demons.
MAT 9:35 And Jesus went about all the cities and the towns, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and curing every disease and every infirmity - among the people..
MAT 9:36 And having beheld the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, for they were fainting, and dropping as sheep not having a shepherd.
MAT 9:37 Then he says to his disciples, For sure the harvest is great, but the workers few;
MAT 9:38 beseech then of the Lord of the harvest, so that he should cast workers into his harvest.
MAT 10:1 And having called on his twelve disciples, he gave to them authority of unclean spirits, so as to cast them out, and to cure every disease and every infirmity.
MAT 10:2 And of the twelve apostles, the names are these - first, Simon, the one being called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
MAT 10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus called Thaddaeus;
MAT 10:4 Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, the one also having delivered him up.
MAT 10:5 These, the twelve, Jesus sent, exhorting them, saying, Unto the way of the nations you should not go forth, and unto a city of Samaritans you should not enter.
MAT 10:6 But you go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel!
MAT 10:7 And going, proclaim! saying that, The kingdom of the heavens approaches.
MAT 10:8 Ones being weak - cure! Dead - raise up! Leprous - cleanse! Demons - cast out! Freely you received, freely you give!
MAT 10:9 You should not acquire gold, nor silver, nor brass coin in your belts,
MAT 10:10 nor a provision bag for the way, nor two inner garments, nor sandals, nor rods; for the worker is worth his provision.
MAT 10:11 And into whatever city or town you should enter, inquire diligently who in it is worthy; and there remain until whenever you should go forth!
MAT 10:12 And entering into the house, greet it!
MAT 10:13 And if indeed the house might be worthy, let your peace come upon it! But if it might not be worthy, let your peace return to you!
MAT 10:14 And who ever should not receive you, nor should hear your words, in going forth from the residence or that city, shake off the dust of your feet!
MAT 10:15 Amen I say to you, More endurable will it be to the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than to that city.
MAT 10:16 Behold, I send you as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be then skilled as the serpents, and unmixed as the doves!
MAT 10:17 And take heed of the men! For they shall deliver you unto sanhedrins, and in their synagogues they shall whip you.
MAT 10:18 And before governors also and kings you shall be led because of me, for a testimony to them and to the nations.
MAT 10:19 And whenever they deliver you, be not anxious how or what you should speak. For it shall be given to you in that hour what you should speak.
MAT 10:20 For you are not the ones speaking, but the spirit of your father speaking in you.
MAT 10:21 But brother shall deliver up brother unto death, and a father a child. And children shall rise up against parents, and they shall put them to death.
MAT 10:22 And you will be detested by all on account of my name. But the one remaining unto completion, this one shall be delivered.
MAT 10:23 But whenever they should persecute you in this city, flee unto the other! For amen I say to you, In no way should you finish the cities of Israel, until whenever the son of man should come.
MAT 10:24 A disciple is not above the teacher, nor a manservant above his master.
MAT 10:25 Sufficient to the disciple that he should become as his teacher, and the manservant as his master. If they invoked Beelzebub the master of the house, how much more the ones of his same house?
MAT 10:26 You should not then fear them. For nothing is being covered, which shall not be uncovered; and hidden, which shall not be known.
MAT 10:27 What I say to you in the darkness, you speak in the light! And what in the ear you hear, proclaim upon the roofs!
MAT 10:28 And fear not from the ones killing the body, but not being able to kill the soul! But you fear rather the one being able both soul and body to destroy in Gehenna!
MAT 10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion? And one of them shall not fall upon the earth without your father.
MAT 10:30 But you, even the hairs of the head are all counted.
MAT 10:31 Do not then fear - you differ than many sparrows!
MAT 10:32 Every one then whoever shall make acknowledgement in me before men, I shall make acknowledgement, even myself, in him before my father in heavens.
MAT 10:33 And whoever should deny me before men, I shall deny him, even myself, before my father in heavens.
MAT 10:34 You should not think that I came to cast peace upon the earth. I came not to cast peace, but a sword.
MAT 10:35 For I came to cleave a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
MAT 10:36 And the enemies of the man are the ones of his own house.
MAT 10:37 The one being fond of a father or mother above me is not worthy of me. And the one being fond of a son or daughter above me is not worthy of me.
MAT 10:38 And the one who does not take his cross, and follow after me, is not worthy of me.
MAT 10:39 The one finding his life shall lose it. And the one losing his life because of me shall find it.
MAT 10:40 The one receiving you receives me, and the one receiving me receives the one sending me.
MAT 10:41 The one receiving a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a wage of a prophet; and the one receiving a just one in the name of a just one shall receive a wage of a just one.
MAT 10:42 And who ever shall give a drink to one of these small ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, amen I say to you, In no way shall he lose his wage.
MAT 11:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus finished setting in order to the twelve disciples of his, he crossed over from there to teach and to proclaim in their cities.
MAT 11:2 And John having heard in the jail the works of the Christ, having sent two of his disciples,
MAT 11:3 he said to him, Are you the coming one, or another are we expecting?
MAT 11:4 And answering, Jesus said to them, Having gone report to John what you hear and see!
MAT 11:5 The blind look up, and lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and deaf-mutes hear, dead are raised, and poor are announced good news.
MAT 11:6 And blessed is who ever should not be caused to stumble in me.
MAT 11:7 And these having gone, Jesus began to say to the multitudes concerning John, What did you come forth into the wilderness to see? A reed being shaken by the wind?
MAT 11:8 But what did you come forth to behold? A man being clothed in soft garments? Behold, the ones wearing soft garments are in the houses of the palaces.
MAT 11:9 But what did you come forth to behold? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and more extra of a prophet.
MAT 11:10 For this it is concerning of whom it has been written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who shall carefully prepare your way before you.
MAT 11:11 Amen I say to you, There has not arisen among ones born of women greater than John the Baptist. But the lesser in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than him.
MAT 11:12 And from the days of John the Baptist until just now the kingdom of the heavens is forced, and is snatched by assailants.
MAT 11:13 For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
MAT 11:14 And if you want to receive, he is Elijah, the one being about to come.
MAT 11:15 The one having ears to hear, let him hear!
MAT 11:16 But what shall I liken this generation? It is likened to boys in a market sitting down and calling out to their companions.
MAT 11:17 And they say, We piped for you, and you did not dance; we wailed for you, and you did not beat your chest.
MAT 11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon.
MAT 11:19 The son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a man, a glutton, and a winebibber, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. And wisdom was justified by her children.
MAT 11:20 Then he began to berate the cities in which took place the most of his works of power, for they repented not, saying,
MAT 11:21 Woe to you, Chorazin. Woe to you, Bethsaida, For if in Tyre and Sidon took place the works of power, having taken place in you, earlier indeed in sackcloth and ashes they would have repented.
MAT 11:22 Only I say to you, It will be more endurable to Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment, than to you.
MAT 11:23 And you, Capernaum, the place raised up high unto the heaven, unto Hades you shall be brought down. For if in Sodom took place the works of power, taking place in you, they would have remained until today.
MAT 11:24 Only I say to you, That it will be more endurable to the land of Sodom in day of judgment, than to you.
MAT 11:25 In that time Jesus responding said, I make acknowledgment to you, O father, O Lord of the heaven and of the earth, that you concealed these things from wise ones and discerning, and uncovered them to simple ones.
MAT 11:26 Yes, father; for so it was benevolent before you.
MAT 11:27 All things to me were delivered up by my father. And no one recognizes the son, were it not for the father; nor any recognizes the father, were it not for the son, and to whom ever the son should will to reveal.
MAT 11:28 Come to me all the ones tiring and being loaded down, and I will cause you rest!
MAT 11:29 Lift my yoke upon you, and learn from me! for I am gentle and humble in the heart; and you shall find rest to your souls.
MAT 11:30 For my yoke is gracious, and my load is light.
MAT 12:1 In that time Jesus went on the sabbaths through the wheat fields; and his disciples hungered, and began to pluck ears of wheat. and to eat.
MAT 12:2 And the Pharisees seeing, said to him, Behold, your disciples do what is not allowed to do in a sabbath.
MAT 12:3 And he said to them, Did you not read what David did when he hungered, and the ones with him?
MAT 12:4 How he entered into the house of God, and the breads of the place setting he ate, which was not allowable to him to eat, nor to the ones with him, except to the priests alone?
MAT 12:5 Or did you not read in the law, that in the sabbaths the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and they are innocent?
MAT 12:6 But I say to you that a greater than the temple is here.
MAT 12:7 And if you had known what it is, Mercy I want, and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the innocent ones.
MAT 12:8 For the son of man is master of the sabbath.
MAT 12:9 And having crossed over from there, he came into their synagogue.
MAT 12:10 And behold, there was a man having a hand withered. And they asked him, saying, Is it allowed on the sabbaths to cure? that they should charge him.
MAT 12:11 And he said to them, What man will be of you who shall have one sheep, and if this one should fall in the sabbaths into a cistern, shall not grab hold of it and raise it?
MAT 12:12 How much then differs a man than a sheep? So that it is allowed to do well on the sabbaths.
MAT 12:13 Then he says to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he stretched it out; and it was restored in health as the other.
MAT 12:14 And the Pharisees took council against him, having gone forth, how they should destroy him.
MAT 12:15 But Jesus having known, he withdrew from there. And great multitudes followed him, and he cured them all.
MAT 12:16 And he gave reproach to them that they should not make him known openly,
MAT 12:17 so that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying,
MAT 12:18 Behold, my child whom I selected; my beloved, in whom my soul takes pleasure. I will put my spirit upon him, and he will report judgment to the nations.
MAT 12:19 He shall not contend, nor cry out, nor shall anyone hear his voice in the squares.
MAT 12:20 A reed being broken he shall not break away, and smoldering flax he shall not extinguish, until whenever he should cast forth equity into victory.
MAT 12:21 And in his name nations shall hope.
MAT 12:22 Then was brought to him one being demon-possessed, blind and mute. And he cured him, so as for the blind and mute one even to speak and to see.
MAT 12:23 And all the multitudes were amazed, and said, Is not this. the son of David?
MAT 12:24 But the Pharisees having heard, said, This one does not cast out the demons, except by Beelzebul the ruler of the demons.
MAT 12:25 But Jesus knowing their thinking, said to them, Every kingdom portioned out against itself is made desolate. And every city or house being portioned out against itself shall not be left standing.
MAT 12:26 And if Satan casts out Satan, he portions against himself; how then shall his kingdom be left standing?
MAT 12:27 And if I by Beelzebul cast out the demons, by what means do your sons cast out? On account of this they will be your judges.
MAT 12:28 But if I by spirit of God cast out the demons, surely then came upon you the kingdom of God.
MAT 12:29 Or how is anyone able to enter into the house of the strong man, and plunder his equipment, if not first he ties up the strong man? and then he shall plunder his house.
MAT 12:30 The one not being with me is against me; and the one not gathering together with me disperses.
MAT 12:31 On account of this I say to you, Every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven to the men. But the blasphemy of the spirit shall not be forgiven to the men.
MAT 12:32 And whoever should say a word against the son of man, it shall be forgiven him. But the one who should speak against the holy spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in the present eon, nor in the one about to be.
MAT 12:33 Then make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the tree rotten, and its fruit rotten! For of the fruit the tree is known.
MAT 12:34 Offspring of vipers, how are you able to speak good things, being wicked? for from out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
MAT 12:35 The good man from out of the good treasury of the heart casts forth the good things. And the wicked man from out of the wicked treasury casts forth the wicked things.
MAT 12:36 But I say to you, That every idle saying which ever men shall speak, they shall render for it a reckoning in the day of judgment.
MAT 12:37 For by your words you shall be justified, and by your words you shall be condemned.
MAT 12:38 Then answered some of the scribes and Pharisees, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.
MAT 12:39 And answering he said to them, A generation wicked and adulterous seeks anxiously a sign; and a sign shall not be given it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
MAT 12:40 For as Jonah was in the belly of the sea monster three days and three nights; so will the son of man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.
MAT 12:41 Ninevite men shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it, for they repented at the proclamation of Jonah; and behold, a greater than Jonah is here.
MAT 12:42 The queen of the south shall rise in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
MAT 12:43 But whenever the unclean spirit should go forth from the man, he goes through waterless places, seeking rest, and does not find.
MAT 12:44 Then he says, I will return into my house from where I came forth; and having come he finds a relaxing, being swept, and being adorned.
MAT 12:45 Then he goes, and takes with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and entering he dwells there. And becomes the last of that man worse than the first. So it will be also to this evil generation.
MAT 12:46 And yet of his speaking to the multitudes, behold, the mother and his brothers stood outside, seeking to speak to him.
MAT 12:47 And said a certain one to him, Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside standing, seeking to speak to you.
MAT 12:48 And responding he said to the one speaking to him, Who is my mother? and who are my brothers?
MAT 12:49 And stretching out his hand unto his disciples, he said, Behold, my mother and my brothers.
MAT 12:50 For who ever should do the will of my father in heavens, he is my brother and sister and mother.
MAT 13:1 And in that day, Jesus having gone forth from the house, sat down by the sea.
MAT 13:2 And were gathered together with him great multitudes, so that he having stepped into the boat sat down; and all the multitude upon the shore stood.
MAT 13:3 And he spoke to them many things in parables, saying, Behold, came forth the one sowing to sow.
MAT 13:4 And in his sowing, some seeds indeed fell by the way, and the birds came and ate them.
MAT 13:5 And others fell upon the rocky places, where it did not have much earth. And immediately it rose up, on account of the not having a depth of earth.
MAT 13:6 But the sun having risen scorched it; and on account of the not having root it was dried up.
MAT 13:7 And others fell by the thorn-bushes; and the thorn-bushes ascended, and choked them.
MAT 13:8 And others fell upon the good earth, and yielded fruit - some indeed a hundred, and some sixty, and some thirty.
MAT 13:9 The one having ears to hear, let him hear!
MAT 13:10 And having come, the disciples said to him, Why in parables do you speak to them?
MAT 13:11 And he answering said to them, That to you has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of the heavens, but to those it has not been given.
MAT 13:12 For whosoever has, it shall be given to him, and he shall abound. But whosoever does not have, even what he has shall be lifted from him.
MAT 13:13 On account of this I speak to them in parables. For seeing they see not; and hearing they hear not, nor perceive.
MAT 13:14 And is fulfilled by them the prophecy of Isaiah, saying, Hearing you shall hear, and in no way should you perceive; and seeing you shall see, and in no way should you know.
MAT 13:15 For the heart of this people was thickened, and with the ears they heard heavily, and they closed the eyelids of their eyes; lest at any time they should see with the eyes, and with the ears should hear, and the heart should perceive, and they should turn, and I shall heal them.
MAT 13:16 But blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear.
MAT 13:17 For amen I say to you, That many prophets and just ones desired to behold what you see, and beheld not; and to hear what you hear, and heard not.
MAT 13:18 You then hear the parable of the one sowing!
MAT 13:19 Every one hearing the word of the kingdom, and not perceiving, there comes the evil one, and he seizes by force the thing being sown in his heart - this is the one being sown by the way.
MAT 13:20 And the one by the rocky places being sown - this is the one hearing the word, and straightway with joy receives it;
MAT 13:21 but he has not a root in himself, but is temporary. And affliction taking place or persecution on account of the word, straightway he is caused to stumble.
MAT 13:22 And the one being sown in the thorn-bushes - this is the one hearing the word; and the anxiety of this eon, and the deception of riches, chokes out the word, and he becomes unfruitful.
MAT 13:23 But the one being sown upon the good earth - this is the one hearing the word, and perceiving; who indeed bears fruit, and produces some indeed a hundred, and some sixty, and some thirty.
MAT 13:24 Another parable he pointed out to them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens is like a man sowing good seed in his field.
MAT 13:25 And during the sleeping of the men, his enemy came and sowed tares in the midst of the grain, and went forth.
MAT 13:26 And when the blade burst forth, and produced fruit, then appeared also the tares.
MAT 13:27 And coming forward, the menservants of the master of the house said to him, O Master, was it not good seed you sowed in your field? From where then have the tares?
MAT 13:28 And he said to them, an enemy, a man did this. And the menservants said to him, Do you want then having gone forth we gather them?
MAT 13:29 And he said, No, lest gathering the tares you should root out together with them the grain.
MAT 13:30 Allow both to grow together until the harvest! And at the time of the harvest I will say to the harvesters, Gather together first the tares, and tie them into a bundle so as to incinerate them! But the grain you gather together unto my storehouse!
MAT 13:31 Another parable he pointed out to them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens is likened to a kernel of mustard, (which a man having taken sowed in his field,)
MAT 13:32 which indeed is lesser of all the seeds. But whenever it should grow, the vegetation is greater, and it becomes a tree, so as for the birds of the heaven to come and encamp in its branches.
MAT 13:33 Another parable he spoke to them. The kingdom of the heavens is likened to yeast, which having taken, a woman hides in three seahs of flour, until of which all is leavened.
MAT 13:34 All these things Jesus spoke in parables to the multitudes, and without parables he spoke not to them;
MAT 13:35 so that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken through the prophet, saying, I shall open my mouth in parables; I will bellow things being hidden from the founding of the world.
MAT 13:36 Then dismissing the multitudes, Jesus went into the house. And his disciples came forward to him, saying, Expound to us the parable of the tares of the field.
MAT 13:37 And answering he said to them, The one sowing the good seed is the son of man;
MAT 13:38 and the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the wicked one;
MAT 13:39 and the enemy sowing them is the devil; and the harvest is the completion of the age; and the harvesters are angels.
MAT 13:40 As then the tares are collected together and incinerated in fire, so it will be in the completion of this eon.
MAT 13:41 The son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather together from his kingdom all the ones causing offence, and the ones committing lawlessness;
MAT 13:42 and they shall throw them into the furnace of the fire. There, there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth.
MAT 13:43 Then the just ones shall shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. The one having ears to hear, let him hear!
MAT 13:44 Again the kingdom of the heavens is likened to a treasure being hidden in the field; which having found, a man hid. And from the joy of it he goes, and all as much as he has he sells, and he buys that field.
MAT 13:45 Again the kingdom of the heavens is likened to a man, a merchant seeking good pearls;
MAT 13:46 who having found one valuable pearl, having gone forth sells all as much as he has, and buys it.
MAT 13:47 Again the kingdom of the heavens is likened to a dragnet being thrown into the sea, and gathering together of every kind.
MAT 13:48 Which when it was filled, having been hauled upon the shore, and having sat down, they gather together the good things into receptacles, and the rotten they throw out.
MAT 13:49 Thus it shall be in the completion of the age. The angels shall go forth, and shall separate the evil ones from the midst of the just ones.
MAT 13:50 And they shall throw them into the furnace of fire. There, there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth.
MAT 13:51 Jesus says to them, Do you perceive all these things? They say to him, Yes, O Lord.
MAT 13:52 And he said to them, On account of this every scribe discipled into the kingdom of the heavens is likened to a man, a master of a house, who casts out from his treasury new and old.
MAT 13:53 And it came to pass when Jesus finished these parables, he moved on from there.
MAT 13:54 And having come into his fatherland, he taught them in their synagogue, so as to overwhelm them, and for them to say, From what place is this one, this wisdom, and the works of power?
MAT 13:55 Is this not the son of the fabricator? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?
MAT 13:56 And his sisters, are they not all with us? From where then are all these things to this one?
MAT 13:57 And they were offended by him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his fatherland, and in his house.
MAT 13:58 And he did not do there many works of power because of their unbelief.
MAT 14:1 In that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report of Jesus,
MAT 14:2 and said to his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and because of this the works of power are exerted in him.
MAT 14:3 For Herod, having held John, bound him, and put him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother.
MAT 14:4 For John said to him, It is not allowed to you to have her.
MAT 14:5 And wanting to kill him, he feared the multitude, for they held him as a prophet.
MAT 14:6 And a birthday being celebrated of Herod, the daughter of Herodias danced in the midst, and she pleased Herod.
MAT 14:7 Whereupon with an oath he acknowledged to give to her what ever she asked.
MAT 14:8 And she, being forced by her mother - Give to me, she says, here upon a platter the head of John the Baptist!
MAT 14:9 And the king fretted; but on account of the oaths, and the ones reclining together with him, he bid it to be given.
MAT 14:10 And having sent forth, he beheaded John in the prison.
MAT 14:11 And his head was brought upon a platter, and was given to the young woman. And she brought it to her mother.
MAT 14:12 And his disciples having come, carried the body, and buried it. And having come, they reported to Jesus.
MAT 14:13 And Jesus having heard, withdrew from there in a boat unto a desolate place in private. And having heard, the multitudes followed him on foot from the cities.
MAT 14:14 And having come forth, Jesus beheld a great multitude, and was moved with compassion over them, and he cured their ill ones.
MAT 14:15 And evening having become, there came forward to him his disciples, saying, The place is desolate, and the hour already went by; dismiss the multitudes, that having gone forth into the towns they should buy foods for themselves!
MAT 14:16 But Jesus said to them, Not a need do they have to go forth; you give to them yourselves something to eat!
MAT 14:17 And they say to him, We do not have here except for five breads and two fishes.
MAT 14:18 And he said, Bring them to me here!
MAT 14:19 And having bid the multitudes to lie down upon the grass, and having taken the five breads, and the two fishes, having looked up into the heaven, he blessed. And having broken, he gave to the disciples the breads, and the disciples to the multitudes.
MAT 14:20 And all ate, and were filled. And they lifted the abounding pieces - twelve hampers full.
MAT 14:21 And the ones having eaten were about five thousand men, apart from women and children.
MAT 14:22 And immediately Jesus compelled his disciples to step into the boat, and to lead before him unto the other side, until of which he should dismiss the multitudes.
MAT 14:23 And having dismissed the multitudes, he ascended into the mountain in private to pray. And evening being come, he was there alone.
MAT 14:24 And the boat was already in the midst of the sea, being tormented by the waves; for the wind was adverse.
MAT 14:25 And the fourth watch of the night Jesus went forth to them walking upon the sea.
MAT 14:26 And the disciples seeing him walking upon the sea were disturbed, saying that, It is a phantom. And from the fear they cried out.
MAT 14:27 And immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Courage, I am he; do not be fearful!
MAT 14:28 And responding to him, Peter said, O Lord, if you are he, bid me to come to you upon the waters!
MAT 14:29 And he said, Come! And Peter descending from the boat, walked upon the waters, to go to Jesus.
MAT 14:30 But seeing the strong wind, he feared; and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, O Lord, save me!
MAT 14:31 And immediately, Jesus having stretched out the hand, took hold of him, and says to him, O one of little belief, for why did you hesitate?
MAT 14:32 And of their stepping into the boat, the wind abated.
MAT 14:33 And the ones in the boat having come did obeisance to him, saying, Truly you are son of God.
MAT 14:34 And having passed through, they came unto the land of Gennesaret.
MAT 14:35 And having recognized him, the men of that place sent into all that round about place, and brought to him all the ones having illnesses.
MAT 14:36 And they enjoined him that only they might touch the decorative hem of his cloak. And as many as touched were delivered.
MAT 15:1 Then came forward to Jesus the ones from Jerusalem - scribes and Pharisees, saying,
MAT 15:2 Why do your disciples violate the tradition of the elders? they wash not for their hands whenever they eat bread.
MAT 15:3 And answering he said to them, Why also do you violate the commandment of God through your tradition?
MAT 15:4 For God gave charge, saying, Esteem the father and the mother! and, The one speaking evil of father or mother, by death shall come to an end.
MAT 15:5 But you say, Who ever should say to the father or to the mother, whatever from me you should derive benefit is a gift offering;
MAT 15:6 and in no way should he esteem his father or his mother - then you voided the commandment of God through your tradition.
MAT 15:7 Hypocrites, well Isaiah prophesied concerning you, saying,
MAT 15:8 This people approach me with their mouth, and with the lips esteem me; but their heart is far off at a distance from me.
MAT 15:9 But in vain they worship me, teaching instructions - precepts of men.
MAT 15:10 And having called on the multitude, he said to them, Hear and perceive!
MAT 15:11 Not the thing entering into the mouth defiles the man; but the thing going forth from out of the mouth, this defiles the man.
MAT 15:12 Then having drawn near, his disciples said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees, the ones hearing the word, were offended?
MAT 15:13 And he answering said, Every plant which my heavenly father planted not, shall be rooted out.
MAT 15:14 Let them go! they are blind guides of the blind. And if the blind should guide the blind, both shall fall into a cistern.
MAT 15:15 And responding Peter said to him, Expound to us this parable!
MAT 15:16 And Jesus said, At this moment even are you senseless?
MAT 15:17 Not yet do you comprehend, that all entering into the mouth has a space in the belly, and into the bowel is cast out?
MAT 15:18 But the things going forth out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and those defile the man.
MAT 15:19 For from out of the heart comes forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, harlotries, frauds, false witnesses, blasphemies.
MAT 15:20 These are the things defiling the man. But to eat with unwashed hands defiles not the man.
MAT 15:21 And Jesus having gone forth from there withdrew into the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
MAT 15:22 And behold, a Canaanite woman from those borders, coming forth, cried out to him, saying, Mercy on me, O Lord, O son of David! my daughter is badly demon-possessed.
MAT 15:23 And he answered not to her a word. And his disciples having come asked him, saying, Dismiss her! For she cries out behind us.
MAT 15:24 And responding he said, I was not sent except unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
MAT 15:25 And she having come did obeisance to him, saying, O Lord, help me!
MAT 15:26 And answering he said, It is not good to take the bread of the children, and to throw it to the little dogs.
MAT 15:27 And she said, Yes, O Lord; for even the little dogs eat from the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.
MAT 15:28 Then responding Jesus said to her, O woman, great is the belief of your's. Let it be to you as you want! And her daughter was healed from that hour.
MAT 15:29 And having crossed over from there, Jesus came by the sea of Galilee; and having ascended into the mountain, he was sitting there.
MAT 15:30 And came forward to him great multitudes, having with themselves lame, blind, mutes, cripples, and many others, and they dropped them by the feet of Jesus; and he cured them.
MAT 15:31 So that the multitudes marveled seeing mutes speaking, cripples in health, lame walking, and blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
MAT 15:32 And Jesus, having called on his disciples, said, I am moved with compassion over the multitude, for already three days they remain with me, and they have not anything to eat; and I do not want to dismiss them hungry from fasting, lest at any time they faint in the way.
MAT 15:33 And his disciples say to him, From where is there to us, being in desolation, menservants for so many, so as to fill a multitude so great?
MAT 15:34 And Jesus says to them, How many breads do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes.
MAT 15:35 And he bid the multitudes to recline upon the ground.
MAT 15:36 And having taken the seven breads and the fishes, having given thanks, he broke, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
MAT 15:37 And all ate and were filled. And they lifted up the abundance of the pieces - seven baskets full.
MAT 15:38 And the ones eating were four thousand men, separate from women and children.
MAT 15:39 And having dismissed the multitudes, he stepped into the boat, and came into the borders of Magdala.
MAT 16:1 And having come forward, the Pharisees and Sadducees testing, asked him to display a sign from out of the heaven to them.
MAT 16:2 And answering, he said to them, Evening having become, you say, Fair weather. For the heaven is fiery red.
MAT 16:3 And at morning, Today it will be distressful. For the heaven being gloomy is fiery red. Hypocrites, forasmuch as the face of the heaven you know to examine; but the signs of the times you are not able.
MAT 16:4 A wicked adulterous generation seeks anxiously a sign; and a sign shall not be given it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet. And leaving them behind, he went forth.
MAT 16:5 And his disciples having come unto the other side forgot to take breads.
MAT 16:6 And Jesus said to them, See, and take heed from the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees!
MAT 16:7 And they were arguing among themselves, saying that, We did not take breads.
MAT 16:8 And knowing, Jesus said to them, Why are you arguing among yourselves, O ones of little belief, that you did not take breads?
MAT 16:9 Not yet do you comprehend, nor remember the five breads of the five thousand, and how many hampers you took up?
MAT 16:10 Nor the seven breads of the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
MAT 16:11 How do you not comprehend that not concerning bread I spoke to you, to take heed from the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees?
MAT 16:12 Then they perceived that he did not say to take heed of the yeast of the bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
MAT 16:13 And Jesus having come into the parts of Caesarea of Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say me the son of man to be?
MAT 16:14 And they said, Some John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
MAT 16:15 He says to them, And you, whom do you say me to be?
MAT 16:16 And answering, Simon Peter said, You are the Christ, the son of the living God.
MAT 16:17 And responding Jesus said to him, Blessed are you Simon Bar Jonah; for flesh and blood revealed not to you, but my father in the heavens.
MAT 16:18 And I say unto you, That you are Peter, and upon this, the rock, I will build my assembly; and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it.
MAT 16:19 And I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of the heavens; and whatever you should have bound upon the earth, it shall be bound in the heavens. And what ever you should have untied upon the earth, it shall be untied in the heavens.
MAT 16:20 Then he gave orders to his disciples that not one shall say that he is Jesus the Christ.
MAT 16:21 From then Jesus began to show to his disciples, that it is necessary for him to go forth unto Jerusalem, and to suffer much from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and to be killed, and in the third day to be risen.
MAT 16:22 And Peter taking him by himself began reproaching to him, saying, Kindness to you, O Lord, in no way will this be to you.
MAT 16:23 And having turned, he said to Peter, Get away behind me, Satan! You are my obstacle, for you think not the things of God, but the things of men.
MAT 16:24 Then Jesus said to his disciples, If any wants to come after me, let him totally reject himself, and lift his cross, and follow me!
MAT 16:25 For who ever should want to preserve his life, will lose it. But who ever should lose his life because of me shall find it.
MAT 16:26 For what benefits a man if the entire world he should gain, but his soul should suffer loss? or what bargain will a man give for his soul?
MAT 16:27 For the son of man is about to come in the glory of his father with his angels; and then he shall recompense each according to his actions.
MAT 16:28 Amen I say to you, There are some of the ones here standing, the ones who in no way shall taste death until whenever they should behold the son of man arriving in his kingdom.
MAT 17:1 And after six days Jesus takes with himself Peter, and James, and John his brother, and bears them unto a high mountain in private.
MAT 17:2 And he transformed in front of them; and his face radiated as the sun, and the garments of his became white as the light.
MAT 17:3 And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them with him, conversing together.
MAT 17:4 And responding Peter said to Jesus, O Lord, it is good for us to be here; if you want, we shall make here three tents - to you one, and to Moses one, and one to Elijah.
MAT 17:5 Yet of his speaking, behold, a cloud giving light overshadowed them. And behold, there was a voice from out of the cloud saying, This is my son the beloved, in whom I take pleasure in; hearken to him!
MAT 17:6 And the disciples hearing, fell upon their face, and were fearful exceedingly.
MAT 17:7 And coming forward Jesus touched them, and said, Arise, and be not fearful!
MAT 17:8 And having lifted up their eyes, they beheld no one, except Jesus only.
MAT 17:9 And of their going down from the mountain, Jesus gave charge to them, saying, Not to one should you tell the vision, until of which the son of man should rise up from the dead.
MAT 17:10 And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
MAT 17:11 And Jesus answering said to them, Elijah indeed comes first, and shall restore all.
MAT 17:12 And I say to you, That Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him, but did to him as much as they wanted. So also the son of man is about to suffer by them.
MAT 17:13 Then the disciples perceived that concerning John the Baptist he spoke to them.
MAT 17:14 And of their coming to the multitude, there came forward to him a man, kneeling to him, and saying,
MAT 17:15 O Lord, show mercy on my son! for he acts lunatic, and suffers badly. For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water.
MAT 17:16 And I brought him to your disciples, and they were not able to cure him.
MAT 17:17 And responding Jesus said, O unbelieving and perverted generation, until when shall I be with you? until when shall I endure you? bring him to me here!
MAT 17:18 And Jesus reproached him; and the demon came forth from him. And the child was cured from that hour.
MAT 17:19 Then the disciples having come forward to Jesus in private, said, Why were we not able to cast it out?
MAT 17:20 And Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief. For amen I say to you, If you have belief as a kernel of mustard, you shall say to this mountain, Be crossed over from here to there; and it will cross over; and nothing shall be impossible to you.
MAT 17:21 But this kind does not go forth except by prayer and fasting.
MAT 17:22 And of their returning to Galilee, Jesus said to them, The son of man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men.
MAT 17:23 And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised up. And they fretted exceedingly.
MAT 17:24 And of their having come into Capernaum, came forward the ones receiving the double-drachmas to Peter, and said, Your teacher, does he not fulfill the double-drachmas?
MAT 17:25 He says, Yes. And when he entered into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you assume, Simon? the kings of the earth - from whom do they receive taxes or tribute? from their sons, or from the strangers?
MAT 17:26 Peter says to him, From the strangers. Jesus said to him, It is so, indeed the sons are free.
MAT 17:27 But that we should not stumble them, having gone to the sea, throw a hook! And the first fish ascending take! And having opened its mouth, you will find a stater coin. That having taken, give it to them for me and you!
MAT 18:1 In that hour the disciples came forward to Jesus, saying, Who then is greater in the kingdom of the heavens?
MAT 18:2 And Jesus having called a child, stood it in the midst of them,
MAT 18:3 and said, Amen I say to you, If you should not turn, and become as the children, in no way should you enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 18:4 Whoever then humbles himself as this child, this one is the greater in the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 18:5 And who ever receives one such child in my name, receives me.
MAT 18:6 And who ever should cause to stumble one of these small ones trusting in me, it would be advantageous to him that a millstone of a donkey should be hung upon his neck, and he should be sunk in the open sea.
MAT 18:7 Woe to the world because of the obstacles; for it is a necessity for the obstacles to come; except woe to that man through whom the obstacle comes.
MAT 18:8 And if your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut them off, and throw them from you! It is good for you to enter into life lame or crippled, than having two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire.
MAT 18:9 And if your eye stumbles you, take it out and cast it from you! It is good for you to enter one-eyed in life, than having two eyes to be thrown into the Gehenna of fire.
MAT 18:10 See that you should not disdain one of these small ones! For I say to you, That their angels in heavens continually see the face of my father in the heavens.
MAT 18:11 For the son of man is come to save the lost.
MAT 18:12 What do you think? if there should be to any man a hundred sheep, and one should wander from them, shall he not leave the ninety nine upon the mountains, and having gone seek the one wandering?
MAT 18:13 And if it happens he finds it, amen I say to you, That he rejoices over it, rather than over the ninety nine not wandering.
MAT 18:14 Thus it is not the will before your father in heavens, that one of these small ones should be lost.
MAT 18:15 But if your brother should sin against you, go and reprove him between you and him alone! If he should hear you, you gain your brother.
MAT 18:16 And if he should not hear, take with you still one or two! that by the mouth of two witnesses or three every matter shall be established.
MAT 18:17 But if he should disregard them, speak to the assembly! And if also the assembly he should disregard, let him be to you as if the ethnics and the tax collector!
MAT 18:18 Amen I say to you, As much as you should tie upon the earth, it will be tied in the heaven; and as much as you should untie upon the earth, it will be untied in the heaven.
MAT 18:19 Again amen I say to you, That if two of you should join in harmony upon the earth concerning every matter of which ever they should ask, it shall happen to them by my father in the heavens.
MAT 18:20 For where there are two or three being gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them.
MAT 18:21 Then having come forward to him, Peter said, O Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him - until seven times?
MAT 18:22 Jesus says to him, Not I say to you unto seven times; but, Unto seventy times seven.
MAT 18:23 On account of this likened is the kingdom of the heavens to a man, a king, who wants to take up a reckoning with his menservants.
MAT 18:24 And he having begun to take up the matter, brings near to him one debtor of ten thousand talents.
MAT 18:25 But he not having means to give back, his master bids him to be sold, and his wife, and the children, and all as much as he had, and to render back.
MAT 18:26 Then the manservant falling, did obeisance to him, saying, O Lord, be lenient upon me, and I will give back all to you!
MAT 18:27 And the master being moved with compassion on that manservant, released him, and forgave to him the debt.
MAT 18:28 And going forth, that manservant found one of his fellow-servants who owed to him a hundred denarii. And having held him, he choked him saying, Give back to me if anything you owe!
MAT 18:29 Then his fellow-servant falling at his feet enjoined him, saying, Be lenient upon me, and I will give back to you!
MAT 18:30 But he wanted not. But going forth he cast him into prison, until he should give back the thing being owed.
MAT 18:31 And his fellow-servants knowing the things happening, fretted exceedingly. And having gone they made clear to their master all the things happening.
MAT 18:32 Then his master having called him, says to him, O wicked manservant, all that debt I canceled to you, when you enjoined me.
MAT 18:33 Must you not also show mercy on your fellow-servant, as also I showed mercy on you?
MAT 18:34 And being provoked to anger, his master delivered him to the tormenters, until of which he should give back all being owed to him.
MAT 18:35 So also my heavenly father shall do to you, if each forgives not his brother from your hearts of their transgressions.
MAT 19:1 And it came to pass when Jesus finished these words, he moved from Galilee, and came unto the borders of Judea on the other side of the Jordan.
MAT 19:2 And great multitudes followed him; and he cured them there.
MAT 19:3 And the Pharisees came forward to him, testing him, and saying to him, Is it allowed to a man to dismiss his wife for any reason?
MAT 19:4 And answering he said to them, Did you not read that the one making from the beginning made them male and female.
MAT 19:5 And he said, On account of this a man shall leave the father and the mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and the two will be for one flesh.
MAT 19:6 So that no longer are they two, but one flesh. What then God yoked together, let not man separate!
MAT 19:7 They say to him, Why then did Moses give charge to give a scroll of divorce, and to dismiss her?
MAT 19:8 He says to them that, Moses for the hardness of your heart committed to your care to dismiss your wives; but from the beginning it happened not thus.
MAT 19:9 And I say to you, that who ever should dismiss his wife, not for harlotry, and should marry another, commits adultery; and the one being dismissed marrying commits adultery.
MAT 19:10 His disciples say to him, If thus is the fault of the man with the wife, it is not advantageous to marry.
MAT 19:11 And he said to them, Not all have space for this word, but to the ones whom it has been given.
MAT 19:12 For there are eunuchs, who from the mother's belly were procreated thus; and there are eunuchs, who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs, who made eunuchs of themselves on account of the kingdom of the heavens. The one being able to have space, let him have space!
MAT 19:13 Then they brought to him children, that he should place the hands upon them, and should pray. But the disciples reproached them.
MAT 19:14 And Jesus said, Allow the children, and do not restrain them to come to me! for of such is the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 19:15 And having placed the hands upon them, he went from there.
MAT 19:16 And behold, one having come forward said to him, Good teacher, what good thing shall I do that I should have life eternal?
MAT 19:17 And he said to him, Why do you call me good? no one is good except one - God. But if you want to enter into the life, keep the commandments!
MAT 19:18 He says to him, Which? And Jesus said, The one - you shall not murder; you shall not commit adultery; you shall not steal; you shall not witness falsely;
MAT 19:19 esteem your father and your mother; and, you shall love your neighbor as yourself.
MAT 19:20 The young man says to him, All these I kept from my youth. What still do I lack?
MAT 19:21 Jesus said to him, If you want to be perfect, go away and sell your possessions, and give to poor ones! and you shall have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me!
MAT 19:22 And the young man having heard the word, he went forth fretting; for he was holding many possessions.
MAT 19:23 And Jesus said to his disciples, Amen I say to you, That with difficulty a rich man shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
MAT 19:24 And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the hole made by an awl, than a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
MAT 19:25 And having heard, his disciples were overwhelmed exceedingly, saying, Who then is able to be delivered?
MAT 19:26 And looking, Jesus said to them, By men this is impossible; but by God all things are possible.
MAT 19:27 Then responding Peter said to him, Behold, we left all, and followed you; what then will be to us?
MAT 19:28 And Jesus said to them, Amen I say to you, That you, the ones following me, in the regeneration whenever the son of man should be seated upon the throne of his glory, you shall sit also upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
MAT 19:29 And every one who left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, because of my name, shall receive a hundred-fold, and shall inherit eternal life.
MAT 19:30 But many first will be last, and last first.
MAT 20:1 For the kingdom of the heavens is likened to a man, a master of a house, who came forth at the same time in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard.
MAT 20:2 And having agreed with the workers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
MAT 20:3 And having come forth around the third hour, he beheld others standing in the market idle.
MAT 20:4 And to those he said; You go also yourselves into the vineyard, and what ever might be just I will give to you!
MAT 20:5 And they went forth. Again going forth around the sixth and ninth hour he did likewise.
MAT 20:6 And around the eleventh hour, having come forth, he found others standing idle. And he says to them, Why do you stand here the entire day idle?
MAT 20:7 They say to him that, No one hired us. He says to them, You go also yourselves into the vineyard, and what ever might be just you shall receive!
MAT 20:8 And evening having become, says the master of the vineyard to his caretaker, Call the workers, and render to them the wage, beginning from the last unto the first!
MAT 20:9 And the ones having come around the eleventh hour received each a denarius.
MAT 20:10 And having come, the first ones thought that they shall receive more; and they received also themselves each a denarius.
MAT 20:11 And having received, they grumbled against the master of the house,
MAT 20:12 saying that, These last produced for one hour, and you made them equal to us, the ones bearing the load of the day, and the burning wind.
MAT 20:13 And responding he said to one of them, My companion, I wrong you not. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?
MAT 20:14 Carry the thing yours, and go! But I want to give to these last ones as also to you.
MAT 20:15 Or is it not allowed to me to do what I want in the things mine? Is it your eye is wicked, that I am good?
MAT 20:16 Thus will be the last first, and the first last. For many are called, but few chosen.
MAT 20:17 And Jesus ascending unto Jerusalem took with himself the twelve disciples in private on the way, and said to them;
MAT 20:18 Behold, we ascend unto Jerusalem; and the son of man shall be delivered up to the chief priests, and scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,
MAT 20:19 and shall deliver him up to the nations, to mock, and to whip, and to crucify; and in the third day he shall rise up.
MAT 20:20 Then came forward to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee with her sons, doing obeisance, and asking something from him.
MAT 20:21 And he said to her, What do you want? She says to him, Say that these my two sons should sit, one on your right, and one on your left, in your kingdom!
MAT 20:22 And answering Jesus said, You know not what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink, and the immersion which I am immersed to be immersed? They say to him, We are able.
MAT 20:23 And he says to them, Indeed, my cup you shall drink, and the immersion which I am immersed you shall be immersed; but to sit on my right and on my left, is not mine to give, but to the ones whom it has been prepared by my father.
MAT 20:24 And having heard, the ten were indignant about the two brothers.
MAT 20:25 And Jesus having called them, said, You know that the rulers of the nations dominate them, and the great ones exercise authority over them.
MAT 20:26 But not so shall it be with you. But who ever should want to become great among you, shall be your servant.
MAT 20:27 And who ever should want among you to be first, shall be your manservant.
MAT 20:28 As the son of man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom instead of many.
MAT 20:29 And of their going forth from Jericho, there followed to him a great multitude.
MAT 20:30 And behold, two blind men sitting down by the way, having heard that Jesus is passing by, cried out, saying, Show mercy on us, O Lord, son of David!
MAT 20:31 But the multitude reproached them, that they should keep silent. But all the greater they cried out, saying, Show mercy on us, O Lord, son of David!
MAT 20:32 And standing, Jesus called them, and said, What do you want I should do to you?
MAT 20:33 They say to him, O Lord, that our eyes should be open.
MAT 20:34 And moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes. And immediately their eyes gained sight, and they followed him.
MAT 21:1 And when they approached unto Jerusalem, and came into Bethphage, to the mount of olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
MAT 21:2 saying to them, Go into the town before you! And immediately you shall find a donkey being tied, and a foal with her; having untied lead them to me!
MAT 21:3 And if anyone should say to you anything, you say that, Their master has need; and immediately he sends them.
MAT 21:4 And this entirely came to pass, that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken through the prophet, saying,
MAT 21:5 Say to the daughter of Zion! Behold, your king comes to you, gentle, and being mounted upon a donkey, and a foal, an offspring of a beast of burden.
MAT 21:6 And the disciples having gone, and having done as Jesus assigned to them,
MAT 21:7 they led the donkey, and the foal, and placed upon them their cloaks. And he sat upon them.
MAT 21:8 And the greatest part of the multitude spread out their own cloaks in the way; and others beat branches from the trees, and spread them out in the way.
MAT 21:9 And the multitudes leading before, and the ones following, cried out, saying, Hosanna to the son of David; being blessed is the one coming in the name of the Lord; hosanna in the highest.
MAT 21:10 And of his entering into Jerusalem, all the city was shaken, saying, Who is this?
MAT 21:11 And the multitudes said, This is Jesus the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee.
MAT 21:12 And Jesus entered into the temple of God, and cast out all the ones selling and buying in the temple, and the tables of the money-changers he overturned, and the chairs of the ones selling the doves.
MAT 21:13 And he says to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer; but you made it a cave of robbers.
MAT 21:14 And came forward to him the lame and blind in the temple; and he cured them.
MAT 21:15 And the chief priests and the scribes beholding the wonders which he did, and the children crying out in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the son of David; they were indignant.
MAT 21:16 And they said to him, Do you hear what these say? And Jesus says to them, Yes, at no time did you read that, From out of the mouth of infants and nursing ones I readied praise?
MAT 21:17 And leaving them, he came forth outside the city into Bethany; and he lodged there.
MAT 21:18 And in the morning turning back into the city, he hungered.
MAT 21:19 And beholding one fig-tree upon the way, he came unto it, and found nothing on it, except leaves only. And he says to it, No longer from you should fruit be produced into the eon. And immediately the fig-tree dried up.
MAT 21:20 And beholding, the disciples marveled, saying, How did the fig-tree immediately dry up?
MAT 21:21 And answering Jesus said to them, Amen I say to you, If you should have belief, and should not examine, not only the thing of the fig-tree shall you do, but even if to this mountain you should say, Be lifted and be thrown into the sea! it shall come to pass.
MAT 21:22 And all as much as you should have asked in the prayer, believing, you shall receive.
MAT 21:23 And in his coming into the temple, the chief priests came forward to him in his teaching, and the elders of the people, saying, By what authority do you do these things? and who gave to you this authority?
MAT 21:24 And answering Jesus said to them, I will ask you also one word, which if you should tell to me, I also will tell to you by what authority I do these things.
MAT 21:25 The immersion of John, from what place was it? from heaven, or from men? And they argued by themselves, saying, If we should say, From heaven; he will say to us, Why then did you not believe in him?
MAT 21:26 And if we should say, From men; we fear the multitude; for all hold John as a prophet.
MAT 21:27 And answering to Jesus they said, We do not know. He said to them also himself, Nor I tell to you by what authority I do these things.
MAT 21:28 But what do you think? A certain man had two children; and having come forward to the first, he said, Child, go, today work in my vineyard!
MAT 21:29 And responding he said, I do not want to. But afterwards, having changed his mind, he went forth.
MAT 21:30 And having come forward to the second, he said likewise. And he answering said, I will, O master. And he did not go forth.
MAT 21:31 Which of the two did the will of the father? They say to him, The first. Jesus says to them, Amen I say to you, That the tax collectors and the harlots go before you into the kingdom of God.
MAT 21:32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him; But you having seen, repented not afterwards, to believe him.
MAT 21:33 Another parable hear! A certain man was master of a house, who planted a vineyard, and put around a barrier to it, and dug in it a wine vat, and built a tower, and handed it over to growers, and traveled abroad.
MAT 21:34 And when the season of the fruits approached, he sent his menservants to the growers to receive of his fruits.
MAT 21:35 And the growers having taken his menservants - one then they flayed, and one they killed, and one they stoned.
MAT 21:36 Again, he sent other menservants more than the first; and they did to them likewise.
MAT 21:37 And afterwards he sent to them his son, saying, They will respect my son.
MAT 21:38 And the growers seeing the son, said among themselves, This is the heir; come, we should kill him, and take control of his inheritance.
MAT 21:39 And having taken, they cast him outside the vineyard, and killed him.
MAT 21:40 Whenever then the master of the vineyard shall come, what will he do to those growers?
MAT 21:41 They say to him, The evil men, harshly he will destroy them, and the vineyard he will hand over to other growers, who will render to him the fruits in their seasons.
MAT 21:42 Jesus says to them, At no time did you read in the scriptures? The stone which the ones building rejected, this one became as head corner stone; by the Lord this happened, and it is wonderful in our eyes?
MAT 21:43 On account of this I say to you, that, The kingdom of God shall be lifted away from you, and shall be given to a nation producing the fruits of it.
MAT 21:44 And the one falling upon this stone shall be fractured in pieces; but upon whom ever it should fall, it shall winnow him.
MAT 21:45 And the chief priests and the Pharisees hearing his parables, knew that about them he speaks.
MAT 21:46 And seeking to hold him, they feared the multitudes, since they held him as a prophet.
MAT 22:1 And responding Jesus again spoke to them in parables, saying,
MAT 22:2 The kingdom of the heavens was likened to a man, a king, who prepared wedding feasts for his son.
MAT 22:3 And he sent his menservants to call the ones being invited unto the wedding feasts; and they did not want to come.
MAT 22:4 Again, he sent other menservants, saying, Say to the ones being invited! Behold, my dinner is prepared; my bullocks and the fattened calves are being sacrificed, and all things are prepared; come to the wedding feasts.
MAT 22:5 But neglecting, they went forth, the one unto his own field, and one unto his trade;
MAT 22:6 and the remaining having taken hold of his menservants, insulted, and killed them.
MAT 22:7 And having heard, that king was provoked to anger. And having sent forth his military, he destroyed those murderers, and their city he burned.
MAT 22:8 Then he says to his menservants, Indeed the wedding feast is prepared, but the ones being invited were not worthy.
MAT 22:9 You go then unto the outer reaches of the ways, and as many as you should find, invite to the wedding feasts!
MAT 22:10 And those menservants having gone forth into the ways, gathered together all as many as they found, both wicked and good; and the wedding feast was filled with ones reclining.
MAT 22:11 And the king entering to see the ones reclining, he beheld there a man not having put on the wedding garment.
MAT 22:12 And he says to him, Friend, how did you enter here not having a wedding garment? And he was halted.
MAT 22:13 Then the king said to the servants, Having bound his feet and hands, lift him, and cast him into the outer darkness! There, there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
MAT 22:14 For many are called, but few are chosen.
MAT 22:15 Then having gone, the Pharisees took council how they should ensnare him in a matter.
MAT 22:16 And they sent to him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are true, and the way of God in truth you teach, and there is not a care to you concerning any one; for you see not to the person of men.
MAT 22:17 Now then tell to us! What do you think? Is it allowed to give tribute to Caesar or not?
MAT 22:18 And Jesus knowing their wickedness, said, Why do you test me, hypocrites?
MAT 22:19 Display to me the money for the tribute! And they brought to him a denarius.
MAT 22:20 And he says to them, What is the image to this and the inscription?
MAT 22:21 They say to him, Caesar's. Then he says to them, Render then the things of Caesar, to Caesar; and the things of God, to God!
MAT 22:22 And having heard they marveled; and leaving him, they went forth.
MAT 22:23 On that day, Sadducees came forward to him, the ones saying there is no resurrection. And they asked him,
MAT 22:24 saying, Teacher, Moses said, If any should die not having children, his brother shall ally by marriage to his wife, and shall raise up seed to his brother.
MAT 22:25 Now there were with us seven brothers; and the first having married came to an end, and not having seed he left his wife to his brother.
MAT 22:26 In like manner also the second, and the third, unto the seven.
MAT 22:27 And afterwards all died and the wife.
MAT 22:28 In the then resurrection which of the seven will she be wife? for all had her.
MAT 22:29 And answering Jesus said to them, You err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God.
MAT 22:30 For in the resurrection neither they marry, nor give in marriage, but they are as angels of God in heaven.
MAT 22:31 But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read the thing having been spoken to you by God, saying,
MAT 22:32 I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead, but of living.
MAT 22:33 And having heard, the multitudes were overwhelmed at his teaching.
MAT 22:34 And the Pharisees, having heard that he halted the Sadducees, gathered together at the same place.
MAT 22:35 And one of them a legal expert asked, testing him, and saying,
MAT 22:36 Teacher, which commandment is great in the law?
MAT 22:37 And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with your entire heart, and with your entire soul, and with your entire thought.
MAT 22:38 This is the first and great commandment.
MAT 22:39 And second likened to it, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
MAT 22:40 In these two commandments all the law and the prophets hang upon.
MAT 22:41 And the Pharisees being gathered together, Jesus asked them,
MAT 22:42 saying, What do you think concerning the Christ? Whose son is he? They say to him, David's.
MAT 22:43 He says to them, How then does David in spirit call him Lord? saying,
MAT 22:44 The Lord - the Greek proper name of Diety said. to my Lord, Sit down at my right until whenever I should establish your enemies for a footstool for your feet!
MAT 22:45 If then David calls him, Lord, how is he his son?
MAT 22:46 And no one was able to answer him a word, nor dared to ask him anything from that day any more.
MAT 23:1 Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes, and to his disciples,
MAT 23:2 saying, Upon the chair of Moses sat the scribes and the Pharisees.
MAT 23:3 All then, as much as they should say to you to give heed, you give heed and do! But according to their works do not do! For they speak, and do not do.
MAT 23:4 For they bind a heavy load and ones hard to bear, and place them upon the shoulders of men; but with their finger they do not want to move them.
MAT 23:5 And all their works they do to be a spectacle to the men. And they widen their phylacteries, and magnify the decorative hems of their cloaks,
MAT 23:6 and are fond of first place in the suppers, and the first seats in the synagogues,
MAT 23:7 and the greetings in the markets, and to be called by the men, Rabbi, Rabbi.
MAT 23:8 But you should not be called Rabbi; for one is your mentor, the Christ; and all you are brothers.
MAT 23:9 And call not any of yours upon the earth father; for there is one - your father in the heavens.
MAT 23:10 Nor be called mentors; for one is your mentor - the Christ.
MAT 23:11 And the greater of you will be your servant.
MAT 23:12 And whoever shall exalt himself, shall be humbled; and whoever shall humble himself, shall be exalted.
MAT 23:13 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you devour the houses of the widows, and as an excuse praying long; on account of this you shall receive more extra judgment.
MAT 23:14 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you lock the kingdom of the heavens before men; for you do not enter in, nor the ones entering do you allow to enter.
MAT 23:15 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you lead about the sea and the dry land to make one convert, and whenever he becomes so, you make him a son of Gehenna - more double than yourselves.
MAT 23:16 Woe to you blind guides, the ones saying, Who ever should swear by an oath on the temple, it is nothing; but who ever should swear by an oath on the gold of the temple, he owes.
MAT 23:17 Morons and blind; for what is greater, the gold, or the temple sanctifying the gold?
MAT 23:18 And saying, Who ever should swear by an oath on the altar, it is nothing; but who ever should swear by an oath by the gift offering upon it, he owes.
MAT 23:19 Morons and blind; for which is greater, the gift offering, or the altar sanctifying the gift offering?
MAT 23:20 The one then swearing an oath by the altar, swears an oath by it, and by all the things upon it.
MAT 23:21 And the one swearing an oath by the temple, swears an oath by it, and by the one having dwelt it.
MAT 23:22 And the one swearing an oath by the heaven, swears an oath by the throne of God, and by the one sitting down upon it.
MAT 23:23 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you tithe the mint, and the dill, and the cummin, and leave the heavier matters of the law - the judgment, and the mercy, and the belief - these necessary to do, and these are not allowed.
MAT 23:24 Blind guides, the ones straining the gnat, but swallowing down a camel.
MAT 23:25 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you cleanse the outside of the cup and the dish, but inside is full of seizure and intemperance.
MAT 23:26 Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the thing within the cup and the dish, that their outside should also become clean.
MAT 23:27 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you are like tombs being whitewashed, which outside indeed appear beautiful, but inside are full of bones of dead ones, and of all uncleanness.
MAT 23:28 So also you from outside indeed appear to men as just, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and of lawlessness.
MAT 23:29 Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for you build the tombs of the prophets, and adorn the memorials of the just ones,
MAT 23:30 and say, If we were in the days of our fathers, we would not be their partners in the blood of the prophets.
MAT 23:31 So that you witness against yourselves, that you are sons of the ones murdering the prophets.
MAT 23:32 And you fill up the measure of your fathers.
MAT 23:33 Serpents, offspring of vipers, how should you flee from the judgment of Gehenna?
MAT 23:34 On account of this, behold, I send to you prophets, and wise ones, and scribes; and of them you shall kill and crucify; and of them you will whip in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city;
MAT 23:35 so that should come upon you all just blood having been poured out upon the earth, from the blood of Abel the just one unto the blood of Zachariah son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar.
MAT 23:36 Amen I say to you, That all these things shall come upon this generation.
MAT 23:37 Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one killing the prophets, and stoning the ones sent to her, how often I wanted to assemble your children in which manner a hen assembles her nestlings under the wings, and you wanted not.
MAT 23:38 Behold, your house is left to you desolate.
MAT 23:39 For I say to you, In no way should you behold me from now, until whenever you should say, Being blessed is the one coming in the name of the Lord.
MAT 24:1 And coming forth, Jesus went from the temple. And his disciples came forward to display to him the constructions of the temple.
MAT 24:2 And Jesus - answering. said to them, Do you not see all these? Amen I say to you, In no way shall there be left here stone upon stone which in any way shall be resting.
MAT 24:3 And of his sitting down upon the mount of olives, there came forward to him the disciples in private, saying, Tell us when these things will be, and what is the sign of your arrival, and the completion of the eon?
MAT 24:4 And answering Jesus said to them, Take heed lest any should mislead you!
MAT 24:5 For many shall come in my name, saying, I am the Christ. And they shall mislead many.
MAT 24:6 But you shall be about to hear of wars and reports of wars. Look to it, lest you be alarmed! For all these things must take place, but not yet is the end.
MAT 24:7 For nation shall rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be famines, and pestilent things, and earthquakes, in places.
MAT 24:8 And all these things are the beginning of birth-pangs.
MAT 24:9 Then they shall deliver you unto affliction, and shall kill you. And you shall be ones being detested by all the nations on account of my name.
MAT 24:10 And then many shall be stumbled, and they shall deliver up one another, and they shall detest one another.
MAT 24:11 And many false prophets shall arise, and they shall mislead many.
MAT 24:12 And on account of the multiplying the lawlessness, the love of many shall be made cold.
MAT 24:13 But the one remaining unto the end, this one shall be delivered.
MAT 24:14 And this good news of the kingdom shall be proclaimed in the entire inhabitable world for a testimony to all the ones among the nations; and then shall come the end.
MAT 24:15 Whenever then you should behold the abomination of the desolation, the thing having been spoken through Daniel the prophet, standing in a holy place; (the one reading let him comprehend!)
MAT 24:16 Then the ones in Judea, let them flee unto the mountains!
MAT 24:17 The one upon the roof, let him not go down to lift anything from out of his house!
MAT 24:18 And the one in the field, let him not turn back to carry his garments!
MAT 24:19 But woe to the ones having one in the womb, and the ones nursing in those days.
MAT 24:20 And pray that your flight into exile should not take place in winter, nor on a sabbath.
MAT 24:21 For there will be then great affliction, such as has not taken place from the beginning of the world until the present, nor in any way to be.
MAT 24:22 And unless those days were cut short, not even was any flesh delivered. But on account of the chosen ones those days shall be cut short.
MAT 24:23 Then if any should say to you, Behold, here is the Christ, or here; you should not believe.
MAT 24:24 For false christs and false prophets shall arise, and shall give great signs and miracles; so as to mislead, if possible, even the chosen ones.
MAT 24:25 Behold, I described to you beforehand.
MAT 24:26 If then they should say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness; you should not go forth. Or, Behold, he is in the inner chambers; you should not believe it.
MAT 24:27 For as the lightning comes forth from the east, and shines forth unto the west; so will be also the arrival of the son of man.
MAT 24:28 For where ever might be the corpse, there the eagles will be gathered together.
MAT 24:29 And immediately after the affliction of those days the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her brightness, and the stars shall fall from the heaven, and the forces of the heavens shall be shaken.
MAT 24:30 And then shall appear the sign of the son of man in the heaven. And then all the tribes of the earth shall beat their chest. And they shall see the son of man coming upon the clouds of the heaven with power and great glory.
MAT 24:31 And he shall send his angels with a trumpet of great sound, and they shall assemble his chosen from out of the four winds, from the tips of the heavens unto their tips.
MAT 24:32 But from the fig-tree learn the parable! Whenever already its branches become tender, and the leaves spring forth, know that summer is near.
MAT 24:33 So also you, whenever you behold all these things, know that it is near, at the doors.
MAT 24:34 Amen I say to you, In no way should this generation pass away, until whenever all these things should come to pass.
MAT 24:35 The heaven and the earth shall pass away, but my words in no way shall pass away.
MAT 24:36 But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of the heavens, only my father alone.
MAT 24:37 And as the days of Noah, so will be also the arrival of the son of man.
MAT 24:38 For as were in the days before the flood chewing and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, as far as of which day Noah entered into the ark,
MAT 24:39 and knew not until the flood came, and lifted all; so it will be also in the arrival of the son of man.
MAT 24:40 Then two will be in the field; the one shall be taken by himself, and the one left.
MAT 24:41 Two women grinding at the mill; one shall be taken by herself, and one left.
MAT 24:42 Be vigilant then; for you know not what hour your Lord comes!
MAT 24:43 But this know! That if the master of the house knew what watch the thief comes, he would have been vigilant, and would not have allowed his house to be dug through.
MAT 24:44 On account of this you also be prepared! For in which hour you think not the son of man comes.
MAT 24:45 Who then is the trustworthy and practical manservant, whom his master placed over his service, to give to them provision in season?
MAT 24:46 Blessed is that manservant, whom his master having come shall find doing thus.
MAT 24:47 Amen I say to you, That over all his possessions he shall place him.
MAT 24:48 But if that evil manservant should say in his heart, My master passes time to come;
MAT 24:49 and he should begin to beat the fellow-servants, and to eat and drink with the ones being intoxicated;
MAT 24:50 the master of that manservant shall come in a day in which he does not expect, and in an hour in which he knows not,
MAT 24:51 and shall cut him in pieces, and his portion will be established with the hypocrites. There, there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth.
MAT 25:1 Then the kingdom of the heavens shall be likened to ten virgins, ones who having taken their lamps, went forth to meet the groom.
MAT 25:2 And five of them were practical, and the five moronish.
MAT 25:3 The ones who were moronish, having taken their lamps, did not take oil with themselves.
MAT 25:4 But the practical took oil in their receptacles with their lamps.
MAT 25:5 But of the groom passing time, they all slumbered and slept.
MAT 25:6 And in the middle of the night a cry came, Behold, the groom comes; go forth to meet him!
MAT 25:7 Then arose all those virgins, and trimmed their lamps.
MAT 25:8 And the moronish said to the practical, Give to us from your oil! for our lamps are extinguishing.
MAT 25:9 And the practical answered, saying, No, lest at any time it should not be sufficient to us and to you; but you go rather to the ones selling, and buy for yourselves!
MAT 25:10 And of their going forth to buy, the groom came; and the ones prepared entered with him unto the wedding feasts; and the door was locked.
MAT 25:11 And afterwards came also the remaining virgins, saying, O Master, O Master, open to us!
MAT 25:12 And he answering said, Amen I say to you, I do not know you.
MAT 25:13 Be vigilant then! for you know not the day nor the hour in which the son of man comes.
MAT 25:14 For as a man traveling abroad called his own menservants, and delivered up to them his possessions.
MAT 25:15 And to one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one; to each according to his own ability; and he traveled abroad immediately.
MAT 25:16 And having gone, the one receiving the five talents worked with them, and made another five talents.
MAT 25:17 Likewise also the one receiving the two, he gained himself also another two.
MAT 25:18 And the one receiving the one, having gone forth dug in the ground, and concealed the money of his master.
MAT 25:19 And after a long time came the master of those menservants, and he takes up a reckoning with them.
MAT 25:20 And the one receiving the five talents having come forward, brought another five talents, saying, O Master, five talents to me you delivered; see, another five talents I gained besides them!
MAT 25:21 And his master said to him, Well done, O good and trustworthy manservant; over a few things you were trustworthy, over many I will place you - enter into the joy of your master!
MAT 25:22 And coming forward also the one receiving the two talents, said, O Master, two talents you delivered up to me; see, another two talents I gained besides them!
MAT 25:23 And his master said to him, Well done, O good and trustworthy manservant, over a few things you were trustworthy, over many I will place you - enter into the joy of your master!
MAT 25:24 And having come forward also the one having taken the one talent, said, O Master, I knew that you are a hard man, harvesting where you sowed not, and gathering from where you dispersed not.
MAT 25:25 And fearing, having gone forth, I hid your talent in the ground - see, you have yours!
MAT 25:26 And responding his master said to him, O Wicked and lazy manservant, you knew that I harvest where I sowed not, and gather from where I dispersed not.
MAT 25:27 It was necessary then for you to put my money with the bankers, and coming I would be delivered whatever was mine with interest.
MAT 25:28 Take then from him the talent, and give it to the one having the ten talents!
MAT 25:29 For to every one having shall be given, and shall abound; but from the one not having, even what - he thinks to have. he has shall be taken from him.
MAT 25:30 And cast out the useless manservant into outer darkness! There, there will be the weeping and gnashing of the teeth.
MAT 25:31 And whenever the son of man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he shall sit upon the throne of his glory.
MAT 25:32 And he shall gather together before him all the nations; and he will separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the kids of the goats.
MAT 25:33 And he will set the sheep indeed on his right, and the little kids on his left.
MAT 25:34 Then the king shall say to the ones on his right, Come, O ones being blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom being prepared for you from the founding of the world!
MAT 25:35 For I hungered, and you gave me to eat; I thirsted, and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger, and you brought me in;
MAT 25:36 naked, and you clothed me; I was sick, and you visited me; I was in prison, and you came to me.
MAT 25:37 Then the just ones will answer to him, saying, O Master, when did we see you hungering, and we nourished you; or thirsting, and we gave you a drink?
MAT 25:38 And when did we behold you a stranger, and brought you in? or naked, and we clothed you?
MAT 25:39 And when did we behold you sick or in prison, and we came to you?
MAT 25:40 And answering the king shall say to them, Amen I say to you, In as much as you did to one of these the least of my brothers you did to me.
MAT 25:41 Then he will say also to the ones on his left, Go from me, O ones being cursed into the eternal fire having been prepared for the devil and his angels!
MAT 25:42 For I hungered, and you did not give to me to eat; I thirsted, and you did not give me a drink;
MAT 25:43 I was a stranger, and you did not bring me in; naked, and you did not clothe me; sick and in prison, and you did not visit me.
MAT 25:44 Then they also will answer to him, saying, O Master, when did we behold you hungering, or thirsting, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and we did not serve to you?
MAT 25:45 Then he will answer to them, saying, Amen I say to you, If as much as you did not do to one of the least of these, not even to me did you do.
MAT 25:46 And these shall go forth unto eternal punishment; but the just ones unto life eternal.
MAT 26:1 And it came to pass when Jesus finished all these words, he said to his disciples,
MAT 26:2 You know that after two days the passover takes place, and the son of man is delivered up for crucifying.
MAT 26:3 Then gathered together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, into the courtyard of the chief priest, being called Caiaphas.
MAT 26:4 And they were advising that they should seize Jesus by treachery, and should kill him.
MAT 26:5 But they said, Not during the holiday, that a tumult should not take place among the people.
MAT 26:6 And Jesus being in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
MAT 26:7 there came forward to him a woman having an alabaster flask of a perfumed liquid of a heavy price, and she poured it down upon his head as he reclined.
MAT 26:8 And his disciples seeing it, were indignant, saying, For what reason is this loss?
MAT 26:9 For this perfumed liquid would be able to be sold for much, and to be given to the poor.
MAT 26:10 But knowing, Jesus said to them, Why do you make troubles to the woman? for she worked a good work for me.
MAT 26:11 For at all times you have the poor with yourselves; but me you do not at all times have.
MAT 26:12 For this woman laying this perfumed liquid upon my body, did so to embalm me.
MAT 26:13 Amen I say to you, Where ever this good news should be proclaimed in the entire world, there shall be spoken also what this woman did for a memorial of her.
MAT 26:14 Then one of the twelve having gone, the one being called Judas Iscariot, to the chief priest,
MAT 26:15 said, What do you want to give me, and I will deliver him up to you? And they established to him thirty silver pieces.
MAT 26:16 And from then he sought an opportune time that he should deliver him up.
MAT 26:17 And on the first day of the unleavened breads the disciples came forward to Jesus, saying to him, Where do you want we should prepare for you to eat the passover?
MAT 26:18 And he said, Go into the city, to a certain person, and say to him! The teacher says, My time is near; with you I will observe the passover with my disciples.
MAT 26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus gave orders to them; and they prepared the passover.
MAT 26:20 And evening becoming, he reclined with the twelve.
MAT 26:21 And of their eating, he said, Amen I say to you, That one of you shall deliver me up.
MAT 26:22 And fretting exceedingly, they began to say to him, each of them, By no means I am he, O Lord?
MAT 26:23 And he responding said, The one dipping the hand with me in the saucer will deliver me up.
MAT 26:24 Indeed the son of man goes away as it has been written concerning him; but woe to that man by whom the son of man is delivered up. It was good to him if that man was not born.
MAT 26:25 And responding, Judas the one delivering him up, said, Not I am he, Rabbi? He says to him, You said it.
MAT 26:26 And during their eating, Jesus having taken the bread, and having blessed, broke it and gave it to the disciples. And he said, Take, eat, this is my body!
MAT 26:27 And having taken the cup, and giving thanks, he gave to them, saying, You drink of it all!
MAT 26:28 For this is my blood of the new covenant for many, being poured out for a release of sins.
MAT 26:29 And I say to you, that in no way shall I drink from now on from this offspring of the grapevine, until that day whenever I should drink it with you new in the kingdom my father.
MAT 26:30 And having sung praise, they went forth unto the mount of the olives.
MAT 26:31 Then Jesus says to them, All you will be stumbled in me in this night. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will disperse.
MAT 26:32 And after my rising, I will go before you into Galilee.
MAT 26:33 And responding Peter said to him, If even all were to stumble in you, I at no time shall be made to stumble.
MAT 26:34 Jesus said to him, Amen I say to you, That in this night, before a rooster calls out, three times you shall totally reject me.
MAT 26:35 Peter says to him, And if it should be necessary for me to die with you, in no way shall I totally reject you. In like manner also all the disciples spoke.
MAT 26:36 Then Jesus comes with them unto a place being called, Gethsemane, and says to the disciples, Sit here, until of which going forth I should pray there!
MAT 26:37 And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to fret and be anxious.
MAT 26:38 Then he says to them, My soul is dejected unto death; remain here, and be vigilant with me!
MAT 26:39 And having gone forth a little, he fell upon his face, praying, and saying, O my father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me - except not as I want, but as you want!
MAT 26:40 And he comes to the disciples, and finds them sleeping. And he says to Peter, So were you not able to be vigilant one hour with me?
MAT 26:41 Be vigilant, and pray, that you should not enter into a test! Indeed the spirit is eager, but the flesh is weak.
MAT 26:42 Again, a second time, having gone forth he prayed, saying, O my father, if it is not possible for this cup to pass from me, except that I drink it, let your will take place!
MAT 26:43 And having come he finds them again sleeping; for their eyes were weighed down.
MAT 26:44 And allowing them, going forth again, he prayed a third time, the same word having said,
MAT 26:45 Then he comes to his disciples, and says to them, Sleep the remaining, and rest! Behold, the hour approaches, and the son of man is delivered up into the hands of sinners.
MAT 26:46 Arise, we lead on! Behold, the one delivering me up approaches.
MAT 26:47 And yet while he was speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and wood spears, from the chief priests and elders of the people.
MAT 26:48 And the one delivering him up gave to them a sign, saying, Whom ever I should kiss, it is he; seize him!
MAT 26:49 And immediately having come forward to Jesus, he said, Hail, rabbi! And he kissed him.
MAT 26:50 And Jesus said to him, Companion, for what reason are you at hand? Then having come forward, they put hands upon Jesus, and seized him.
MAT 26:51 And behold, one of the ones with Jesus, stretching out the hand, drew up his sword, and striking the manservant of the chief priest, he removed his ear.
MAT 26:52 Then Jesus says to him, Return your sword unto its place! for all the ones taking the sword shall die by a sword.
MAT 26:53 Or do you think that I am not able just now to call for the aid of my father? Even he will stand by me more than twelve legions of angels.
MAT 26:54 How then should the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must take place?
MAT 26:55 In that hour Jesus said to the multitudes, As against a robber do you come forth with swords and wood spears to seize me? Daily with you I sat teaching in the temple, and you did not seize me.
MAT 26:56 But this all happened, that the scriptures of the prophets should be fulfilled. Then all the disciples leaving him, fled.
MAT 26:57 And the ones seizing Jesus took him away to Caiaphas the chief priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together.
MAT 26:58 And Peter followed him from far off unto the courtyard of the chief priest, and entering inside, he sat down with the officers, to see the conclusion.
MAT 26:59 And the chief priests, and the elders, and the entire sanhedrin, sought false witness against Jesus, so that they should kill him;
MAT 26:60 and they did not find reason; and many false witnesses having come forward did not find reason. But afterwards two false witnesses having come forward,
MAT 26:61 they said, This one said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and in three days to rebuild it.
MAT 26:62 And having risen up, the chief priest said to him, Nothing you answer? What do these bear witness against you?
MAT 26:63 But Jesus kept silent. And responding the chief priest said to him, I adjure you according to the living God, that to us you should say if you are the Christ, the son of God.
MAT 26:64 Jesus says to him, You said it. Furthermore I say to you, From now you shall see the son of man sitting down at the right hand of the power, and coming upon the clouds of the heaven.
MAT 26:65 Then the chief priest tore his garments, saying that, He blasphemed - what still need do we have of witnesses? See! Now you heard his blasphemy.
MAT 26:66 What do you think? And they responding said, He is liable of death.
MAT 26:67 Then they spat in his face, and buffeted him; and some slapped,
MAT 26:68 saying, Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is the one hitting you?
MAT 26:69 And Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. And came forward to him one maidservant, saying, Even you were with Jesus the Galilean.
MAT 26:70 But he denied before all, saying, I do not know what you say.
MAT 26:71 And him coming forth into the vestibule, another beheld him. And he says to them there, Even this one was with Jesus the Nazarene.
MAT 26:72 And again he denied with an oath, that, I do not know the man.
MAT 26:73 And after a little while the ones standing having come forward said to Peter, Truly even you are of them; for even your speech makes you manifest.
MAT 26:74 Then he began to bind by a curse, and swear by an oath that, I have not known the man. And immediately a rooster called out.
MAT 26:75 And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, having said to him that, Before a rooster calls out, three times you shall totally reject me. And having gone forth outside, he wept bitterly.
MAT 27:1 And morning having become, all the chief priests took council, and the elders of the people against Jesus so as to put him to death.
MAT 27:2 And having bound him, they took, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate the governor.
MAT 27:3 Then Judas the one delivering him up beholding that he was condemned, changed his mind, so as to return the thirty silver pieces to the chief priests and to the elders,
MAT 27:4 saying, I sinned, having delivered up innocent blood. But they said, What is that to us? You shall see to that.
MAT 27:5 And having tossed the silver pieces in the temple, he withdrew, and having gone forth he hung himself.
MAT 27:6 But the chief priests having taken the silver pieces, said, It is not allowed to throw them into the offering when it is the value for blood.
MAT 27:7 And taking council, they bought with them the field of the potter for a burial ground for strangers.
MAT 27:8 Therefore that field is called, Field of blood, until today.
MAT 27:9 Then was fulfilled the thing having been spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, And I took the thirty silver pieces, the value of the one being valued, who was valued by the sons of Israel.
MAT 27:10 And they gave them for the field of the potter, as the Lord gave orders to me.
MAT 27:11 And Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, You say it.
MAT 27:12 And in the charging him by the chief priests and the elders, he answered nothing.
MAT 27:13 Then Pilate says to him, Do you not hear how much they witness against you?
MAT 27:14 And he answered not to him - to not even one word, so that the governor marveled exceedingly.
MAT 27:15 And according to the holiday the governor was accustomed to release one prisoner to the multitude, whom they wanted.
MAT 27:16 And they had then a notorious prisoner, being called Barabbas.
MAT 27:17 Then of their being gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want I release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus the one being called Christ.
MAT 27:18 For he knew that on account of envy they delivered him up.
MAT 27:19 And of his sitting down upon the rostrum, his wife sent to him, saying, Let there be nothing between you and that just one; for I suffered much today by a dream concerning him.
MAT 27:20 But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas, and Jesus should perish.
MAT 27:21 And responding the governor said to them, Who do you want from the two I should release to you? And they said, Barabbas.
MAT 27:22 Pilate says to them, What then shall I do with Jesus the one being called Christ? all say to him, Let him be crucified!
MAT 27:23 And the governor said, For what evil did he do? And they extremely more cried out, saying, Let him be crucified!
MAT 27:24 And Pilate seeing that in nothing he derived benefit, but rather it became a tumult, having taken water, he washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just one; you shall see to it.
MAT 27:25 And responding all the people said, His blood is upon us and upon our children.
MAT 27:26 Then he released to them Barabbas. And scourging Jesus, he delivered him up that he should be crucified.
MAT 27:27 Then the soldiers of the governor, having taken with them Jesus to the praetorium, gathered against him the entire cohort.
MAT 27:28 And stripping him, they put on him a scarlet military cloak.
MAT 27:29 And having plaited a crown of thorns, they placed it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, Hail, king of the Jews!
MAT 27:30 And having spit on him, they took the reed, and beat upon his head.
MAT 27:31 And when they mocked him, they took the military cloak off him, and they put on 3him 1his garments, and took him to be crucified.
MAT 27:32 And going forth, they found a Cyrenaean man, by name Simon; this one they conscripted that he should bear his cross.
MAT 27:33 And having come unto a place being called Golgotha, which is being called, place of the skull,
MAT 27:34 they gave to him vinegar to drink, with bile being mixed; and having tasted, he did not want to drink.
MAT 27:35 And having crucified him, they divided his garments, casting a lot; that should be fulfilled the thing having been spoken by the prophet, They divided my garments among themselves, and over my clothes they cast a lot.
MAT 27:36 And sitting down they kept him there.
MAT 27:37 And they placed above his head his accusation being written - This is Jesus the king of the Jews.
MAT 27:38 Then were crucified with him two robbers, one at his right, and one at his left.
MAT 27:39 And the ones coming near blasphemed him, shaking their heads,
MAT 27:40 and saying, O one destroying the temple, and in three days rebuilding it, deliver yourself! If you are the son of God, come down from the cross!
MAT 27:41 And in like manner also the chief priests mocking, with the scribes and elders, said,
MAT 27:42 Others he delivered, himself he is not able to deliver. If he is king of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe upon him!
MAT 27:43 He relied upon God; let him rescue him now, if he wants him; for he said that, I am son of God!
MAT 27:44 And the same way also the robbers being crucified along with him berated him.
MAT 27:45 And from the sixth hour darkness came upon all the land until the ninth hour.
MAT 27:46 And around the ninth hour Jesus yelled out with a great voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lima sabacthani; that is, My God, My God, why have you abandoned me?
MAT 27:47 And some of the ones standing there having heard, said that, This one calls Elijah.
MAT 27:48 And immediately one of them running, and taking a sponge, filling also of vinegar, and putting it on a reed, gave him to drink.
MAT 27:49 And the rest said, Let go, we should see if Elijah comes delivering him!
MAT 27:50 And Jesus, again having cried out with a great voice, let go the spirit.
MAT 27:51 And behold, the veil of the temple was split into two from above unto below; and the earth was shaken, and the rocks split;
MAT 27:52 and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the holy ones sleeping arose.
MAT 27:53 And having come forth from out of the tombs, after his rising up, they entered into the holy city, and were revealed to many.
MAT 27:54 And the centurion, and the ones with him, keeping guard over Jesus, having beheld the earthquake, and the things happening, feared exceedingly, saying, Truly this was son of God.
MAT 27:55 And were there many women from far off viewing, who followed Jesus from Galilee, serving to him;
MAT 27:56 among whom was Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
MAT 27:57 And evening having become, there came a rich man from Arimathea, by name Joseph, who also himself was discipled by Jesus.
MAT 27:58 This one having come forward to Pilate, asked the body of Jesus. Then Pilate bid to give the body.
MAT 27:59 And having taken the body, Joseph swathed it with pure fine linen.
MAT 27:60 And he placed it in his new sepulchre, which he quarried in the rock. And having rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, he went forth.
MAT 27:61 And was there, Mary the Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting down before the tomb.
MAT 27:62 And the next day, which is after the preparation, were gathered together the chief priests and the Pharisees to Pilate,
MAT 27:63 saying, O master, we remember that, that deluded one said, while still living, After three days I arise.
MAT 27:64 Bid then to safeguard the tomb until the third day! lest at any time his disciples coming at night should steal it, and should say to the people, He is risen from the dead; and will be the last delusion worse than the first.
MAT 27:65 And Pilate said to them, You have a custodial guard, Go away! You safeguard as you know!
MAT 27:66 And the ones having gone safeguarded the tomb, setting a seal upon the stone by the custodial guard.
MAT 28:1 And late of sabbaths, in the evening on day one of sabbaths, came Mary the Magdalene, and the other Mary to view the tomb.
MAT 28:2 And behold, a great earthquake took place; for an angel of the Lord having come down from out of heaven, having come forward, rolled the stone from the door, and was sitting down upon it.
MAT 28:3 And his shape was as lightning, and his garment white as snow.
MAT 28:4 And from the fear of him the ones keeping guard shook, and became as dead.
MAT 28:5 And responding the angel said to the women, You fear not! For I know that you seek Jesus the one having been crucified.
MAT 28:6 He is not here; for he is risen as he said. Come, behold the place where the Lord was situated!
MAT 28:7 And quickly going, say to his disciples that he is risen from the the dead, and behold, he goes before you into Galilee! There you shall see him. Behold, I told to you.
MAT 28:8 And having gone forth quickly from the sepulchre, with fear and great joy; they ran to report to his disciples.
MAT 28:9 And as they were going to report to his disciples, that behold, Jesus met them, saying, Hail! And they having come forward held his feet, and did obeisance to him.
MAT 28:10 Then Jesus says to them, Fear not! Go! Report to my brothers that they should go forth into Galilee, and there they shall see me!
MAT 28:11 And of their going, behold, some of the custodial guard having come into the city reported to the chief priests all the things happening.
MAT 28:12 And having gathered together with the elders, and council having taken, they gave the soldiers enough silver,
MAT 28:13 saying, Say that! His disciples having come by night stole him of us being asleep.
MAT 28:14 And if this should be heard by the governor, we shall persuade him, and we will make you free from care.
MAT 28:15 And they, having taken the money, did as they were taught. And was spread abroad this word by the Jews until today.
MAT 28:16 But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, unto the mountain where Jesus ordered them.
MAT 28:17 And seeing him, they did obeisance to him; but some hesitated.
MAT 28:18 And having come forward, Jesus spoke to them, saying, All authority was given to me in heaven and upon earth.
MAT 28:19 Going then, disciple all the nations, immersing them in the name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy spirit!
MAT 28:20 Teaching them to give heed to all as much as I gave charge to you. And behold, I am with you all the days until the completion of the eon. Amen.
MAR 1:1 The beginning of the good news of Jesus Christ, son of God.
MAR 1:2 As it has been written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who shall carefully prepare your way before you.
MAR 1:3 A voice yelling in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord! Make straight his roads!
MAR 1:4 John came immersing in the wilderness, and proclaiming an immersion of repentance for a release of sins.
MAR 1:5 And all the Judean went forth region to him, and the ones of Jerusalem. And all were immersed in the Jordan river by him, acknowledging their sins.
MAR 1:6 And John was clothed with hair of a camel, and a belt made of skin around his loin, and eating locusts and wild honey.
MAR 1:7 And he proclaimed, saying, There comes the one stronger than me after me, of whom I am not fit, having bowed down, to untie the strap of his sandals.
MAR 1:8 I indeed immerse you in water; but he shall immerse you in holy spirit.
MAR 1:9 And it came to pass in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was immersed by John into the Jordan.
MAR 1:10 And immediately, ascending from the water, he beheld the splitting of the heavens, and the spirit as a dove coming down upon him.
MAR 1:11 And a voice came from out of the heavens, saying, You are my son the beloved, in whom I take pleasure.
MAR 1:12 And straightway the spirit cast him into the wilderness.
MAR 1:13 And he was there in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satanthe adversary.. And he was with the wild beasts; and the angels served to him.
MAR 1:14 And after the delivering up John, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom of God,
MAR 1:15 and saying that, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God approaches; repent and believe in the good news!
MAR 1:16 And walking by the sea of Galilee, he beheld Simon and Andrew his brother casting a casting-net in the sea; for they were fishermen.
MAR 1:17 And Jesus said to them, Come after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.
MAR 1:18 And immediately, leaving their nets, they followed him.
MAR 1:19 And having advanced from there a little, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, and them in the boat readying the nets.
MAR 1:20 And immediately he called them. And having left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hirelings they went forth after him.
MAR 1:21 And they entered into Capernaum. And immediately on the sabbaths, having entered into the synagogue, he taught.
MAR 1:22 And they were overwhelmed by his teaching; for he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.
MAR 1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he shouted aloud,
MAR 1:24 saying, Alas, what is it to us and to you, Jesus, O Nazarene? are you come to destroy us? I know you, who you are, the holy one of God.
MAR 1:25 And Jesus gave reproach to him, saying, Be halted, and come forth from out of him!
MAR 1:26 And the unclean spirit having thrown him into a spasm, and having cried out with a great voice, came forth from out of him.
MAR 1:27 And all were distraught, so as to debate among themselves, saying, What is this? What new teaching is this? that with authority even to the unclean spirits he gives orders, and they obey him.
MAR 1:28 And went forth the report of him straightway into all the place round about Galilee.
MAR 1:29 And immediately, having gone forth from out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
MAR 1:30 And the mother-in-law of Simon was reclining in a fever. And immediately they speak to him concerning her.
MAR 1:31 And having come forward he raised her, holding her hand; and immediately the fever left her, and she served to them.
MAR 1:32 And evening having become, when the sun went down, they brought to him all the ones badly having it, and the ones being demon-possessed.
MAR 1:33 And the entire city being assembled was at the door.
MAR 1:34 And he cured many badly having it of various diseases, and he cast out many demons; and did not allow the demons to speak, for they knew him.
MAR 1:35 And having risen up exceedingly in the morning by night he departed, and went forth unto a desolate place, and there prayed.
MAR 1:36 And Simon and the ones with him pursued him.
MAR 1:37 And having found him, they say to him that, All seek you.
MAR 1:38 And he says to them, We should lead on unto the places having small cities, that even there I should proclaim; for I have come forth for this.
MAR 1:39 And he was proclaiming in their synagogues in all Galilee, and casting out the demons.
MAR 1:40 And a leper comes to him, enjoining him, and kneeling down to him, and saying to him that, If you should want, you are able to cleanse me.
MAR 1:41 And Jesus, being moved with compassion, stretched out his hand, and touched him, and says to him, I want; be cleansed!
MAR 1:42 And having spoken, immediately the leprosy went forth from him, and he was cleansed.
MAR 1:43 And having given strict charge to him, immediately he cast him away.
MAR 1:44 And he says to him, See that you should say not one thing to anyone. But go show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses assigned for a testimony to them!
MAR 1:45 But having gone forth, he began to proclaim much, and to spread abroad the matter, so that no longer was he able to enter openly into a city, but was outside in deserted places. And they came to him from every place.
MAR 2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it was heard that he is in the house.
MAR 2:2 And immediately were gathered together many, so that they no longer had space, nor the places by the door. And he spoke to them the word.
MAR 2:3 And they come to him bringing a paralytic, being lifted by four men.
MAR 2:4 And not being able to draw near to him on account of the multitude, they unroofed the roof where he was. And having gouged it out, they let down the litter upon which the paralytic reclined.
MAR 2:5 And Jesus beholding their belief says to the paralytic, Son, your sins have been forgiven you.
MAR 2:6 And some of the scribes were there sitting down, and reasoning in their hearts,
MAR 2:7 Why does this one thus speak blasphemies? Who is able to forgive sins except one - God?
MAR 2:8 And immediately, Jesus recognizing in his spirit that so they reasoned within themselves, he said to them, Why do you reason these things in your hearts?
MAR 2:9 What is easier to say to the paralytic? The sins have been forgiven you; or to say, Arise, and lift your litter, and walk!
MAR 2:10 But that you should know that the son of man has authority to forgive sins upon the earth, he says to the paralytic,
MAR 2:11 To you I say, Arise, and lift your litter, and go unto your house!
MAR 2:12 And he arose immediately, and having lifted the litter, he went forth before all; so that all were amazed and glorified God, saying that, At no time we beheld thus.
MAR 2:13 And he went forth again by the sea; and all the multitude came to him, and he taught them.
MAR 2:14 And passing by, he beheld Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting down at the tax collector's station. And he says to him, Follow me! And having risen up he followed him.
MAR 2:15 And it came to pass in his reclining in his house, also many tax collectors and sinners reclined together with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many, and they followed him.
MAR 2:16 And the scribes and the Pharisees beholding him eating with the tax collectors and sinners, said to his disciples, Why is it that with the tax collectors and sinners he eats and drinks?
MAR 2:17 And Jesus having heard, he says to them, Not a need have the ones being strong of a physician, but the ones badly having it. I came not to call the just ones, but sinners to repentance.
MAR 2:18 And the disciples of John and the ones of the Pharisees were fasting. And they come and say to him, Why do the disciples of John and the ones of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?
MAR 2:19 And Jesus said to them, Are the sons of the able bridal chamber, in which the groom is with them, to fast? as much time as they themselves have with the groom, they are not able to fast.
MAR 2:20 But will come days whenever the groom should depart from them, and then they shall fast in those days.
MAR 2:21 And no one sews a piece of cloth of an unshrunk rag upon an old garment; otherwise its fullness lifts the new from the old, and the split becomes worse.
MAR 2:22 And no one casts new wine into old leather wine bags; otherwise the new wine tears the leather wine bags, and the wine pours out, and the leather wine bags are destroyed; but new wine is to be put into new leather wine bags.
MAR 2:23 And it came to pass for him to pass on the sabbaths through the wheat fields. And his disciples began to make their way while plucking the ears of wheat.
MAR 2:24 And the Pharisees said to him, See! Why do they do on the sabbaths which is not allowed?
MAR 2:25 And he said to them, At no time did you read what David did, when he had need, and he hungered, himself, and the ones with him?
MAR 2:26 How he entered into the house of God unto Abiathar the chief priest, and ate the breads of the place setting,, which is not allowed to eat, unless to the priests, and gave even to the ones being with him?
MAR 2:27 And he said to them, The sabbath on account of man exists, not man on account of the sabbath.
MAR 2:28 So that the son of man is lord also of the sabbath.
MAR 3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and a man was there having the hand being withered.
MAR 3:2 And they closely watched him, if on the sabbaths he will cure him, that they should charge him.
MAR 3:3 And he says to the man having the hand being withered, Arise into the middle!
MAR 3:4 And he says to them, Is it allowed on the sabbaths to do good, or to do evil? to preserve a life or to kill? And they kept silent.
MAR 3:5 And having looked round about them with anger, being grieved over the callousness of their heart, he says to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he stretched it out. And his hand was restored in health as the other.
MAR 3:6 And having gone forth, the Pharisees immediately with the Herodians took council against him, how they should destroy him.
MAR 3:7 And Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea. And a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea,
MAR 3:8 and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and on the other side of the Jordan. And the ones around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, having heard as much as he was doing, came to him.
MAR 3:9 And he spoke to his disciples, that a small boat should attend constantly to him because of the multitude, that they should not squeeze him.
MAR 3:10 For many he cured; so as to fall upon him, that as many as had scourges should touch him.
MAR 3:11 And the unclean spirits, whenever they viewed him, fell at him, and cried out, saying that, You are the son of God.
MAR 3:12 And he reproached them much that they should not make him apparent.
MAR 3:13 And he ascends into the mountain, and calls on whom he wants. And they went forth to him.
MAR 3:14 And he appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he should send them to proclaim,
MAR 3:15 and to have authority to cure the diseases, and to cast out the demons.
MAR 3:16 And he placed upon Simon the name Peter.
MAR 3:17 And to James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James he placed upon them the names Boanerges, which is, sons of thunder.
MAR 3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
MAR 3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who also delivered him up. And they come to a house.
MAR 3:20 And there comes together again a multitude so that they are not able neither to eat bread.
MAR 3:21 And hearing, the ones of his come forth to seize him; for they said that, He is startled.
MAR 3:22 And the scribes from Jerusalem having come down, said that, He has Beelzeboul, and that by the ruler of the demons he cast out the demons.
MAR 3:23 And having called them, in parables he spoke to them, How is Satan able to cast out Satan?
MAR 3:24 And if a kingdom should be parted out against itself, that kingdom is not able to stand.
MAR 3:25 And if a house should be parted out gainst itself, that house is not able to stand.
MAR 3:26 And if Satan rose up against himself, and has been parted out, he is not able to stand, but has an end.
MAR 3:27 No one is able to plunder the items of the strong man by entering into his house, if not first he should tie up the strong man; and then he will plunder his house.
MAR 3:28 Amen I say to you that, All sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and blasphemies as many as they should have blasphemed.
MAR 3:29 But who ever should blaspheme against the holy spirit has not a release into the eon, but is liable to eternal judgment.
MAR 3:30 For they said, He has an unclean spirit.
MAR 3:31 Then come the brothers and his mother. And standing outside they sent to him, calling him.
MAR 3:32 And the multitude sat around him, and said to him, Behold, your mother and your brothers outside seek you.
MAR 3:33 And he answered to them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brothers?
MAR 3:34 And having looked round about on the ones sitting around him, he says, See - my mother and my brothers!
MAR 3:35 For who ever should do the will of God, this one is my brother and sister and mother.
MAR 4:1 And again he began to teach by the sea. And there was gathered together to him a great multitude, so that he, having stepped into the boat, sat down in the sea; and all the multitude by the sea were upon the ground.
MAR 4:2 And he taught them in parables many things, and said to them in his teaching,
MAR 4:3 Hearken! Behold, went forth the one sowing to sow.
MAR 4:4 And it came to pass in the sowing, some seed fell by the way, and the birds of the heaven came and devoured it.
MAR 4:5 And other fell upon the rocky place, where it did not have much earth; and immediately it rose up, because of the not having a depth of earth.
MAR 4:6 And the sun having arisen, it was scorched; and because of the not having root, it was dried up.
MAR 4:7 And other fell into the thorns, and the thorns ascended, and choked it, and it did not give fruit.
MAR 4:8 And other fell into the good earth, and gave fruit ascending and growing; and one bore thirty, and one sixty, and one a hundred.
MAR 4:9 And he said to them, The one having ears to hear, let him hear!
MAR 4:10 And when he was alone, they asked him, (the ones around him with the twelve,) the parable.
MAR 4:11 And he said to them, To you has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God; but to those outside, all things happen in parables.
MAR 4:12 That in seeing they should see, and not know; and in hearing they should hear, and not perceive; lest at any time they should turn, and their sins should be forgiven them.
MAR 4:13 And he says to them, Do you not perceive this parable - then how shall you perceive all the parables?
MAR 4:14 The one sowing sows the word.
MAR 4:15 And these are the ones by the way, where the word is sown. And whenever they hear, immediately comes Satan, and takes away the word being sown in their hearts.
MAR 4:16 And these are in like manner the ones upon the rocky places being sown; the ones, whenever they should hear the word, immediately with joy receive it;
MAR 4:17 and they do not have root in themselves, but are temporary. So then when affliction happens or persecution because of the word, immediately they are caused to stumble.
MAR 4:18 And these are the ones among the thorns being sown; the ones having heard the word,
MAR 4:19 and the anxieties of this eon, and the deception of the riches, and on account of the remaining desires entering in, choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
MAR 4:20 And these are the ones having been sown upon the good earth; the ones who hear the word, and welcome it, and bear fruit, one thirty, and one sixty, and one a hundred.
MAR 4:21 And he said to them, Does the lamp come out that it should be put under the bushel, or under the bed? Is it not that it should be placed upon the lamp-stand?
MAR 4:22 For not is anything hidden which should not be made manifest; nor becomes concealed, but that it should come into the open.
MAR 4:23 If any has ears to hear let him hear!
MAR 4:24 And he said to them, Take heed what you hear! In what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you. And to the ones hearing it shall be added to you.
MAR 4:25 For who ever has, it shall be given to him; and the one who does not have, even what he has shall be taken from him.
MAR 4:26 And he said, Thus is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast the seed upon the ground;
MAR 4:27 and should sleep, and should arise night and day, and the seed should burst forth, and should lengthen as he knows not.
MAR 4:28 For by itself the earth bears fruit; first the blade, then an ear of wheat, then the full grain in the ear of wheat.
MAR 4:29 And whenever the fruit should be delivered up, immediately he sends the sickle, for the harvest stands by.
MAR 4:30 And he said, To what should we liken the kingdom of God? or by what kind of parable shall we compare it?
MAR 4:31 As a kernel of mustard, which, whenever it should be sown upon the ground, is lesser than all the seeds of the ones upon the earth.
MAR 4:32 And whenever it should be sown, it ascends, and becomes greater than all the vegetations, and produces great branches; so as to enable the birds of the heaven to encamp under its shade.
MAR 4:33 And with such many parables he spoke to them the word, as they were able to hear.
MAR 4:34 And without parables he did not speak to them. But in private he explained all to his disciples.
MAR 4:35 And he says to them in that day, Evening becoming, we should go through unto the other side.
MAR 4:36 And letting go the multitude, they take him with themselves, as he was in the boat. But also other small boats were with him.
MAR 4:37 And there comes a tempest of a great wind, and the waves put upon into the boat, so that it already was filling.
MAR 4:38 And he was himself at the stern upon the pillow sleeping. And they awaken him, and say to him, Teacher, is it not a care to you that we perish?
MAR 4:39 And having awakened, he gave reproach to the wind, and said to the sea, Be silent! Be halted! And the wind abated, and there became a great calm.
MAR 4:40 And he said to them, Why are you so timid? how do you not have belief?
MAR 4:41 And they feared a great fear, and they said to one another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?
MAR 5:1 And they came unto the other side of the sea, into the place of the Gadarenes.
MAR 5:2 And on his having come forth from out of the boat, immediately there met him from out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
MAR 5:3 who had his dwelling in the tombs; and neither with chains, no one was able to bind him;
MAR 5:4 for the reason he often with shackles and chains had been bound, and the chains had been pulled apart by him, and the shackles had been broken; and no one was strong enough to tame him.
MAR 5:5 And always, night and day, in the mountains, and in the tombs, he was crying out, and cutting himself with stones.
MAR 5:6 And beholding Jesus from far off, he ran and did obeisance to him.
MAR 5:7 And having cried out with a great voice, he said, What is it to me and to you, Jesus, O son of the highest God? I adjure you by God, that you should not torment me.
MAR 5:8 For he said to him, Come forth, O unclean spirit, from out of the man!
MAR 5:9 And he asked him, What is your name? And he answered, saying, Legion, is my name; for we are many.
MAR 5:10 And he appealed to him much that he should not send them outside the place.
MAR 5:11 And was there by the mountains a great herd of swine grazing.
MAR 5:12 And all the demons appealed to him, saying, Send us forth into the swine! that into them we should enter.
MAR 5:13 And Jesus committed them immediately. And having come forth, the unclean spirits entered into the swine. And the herd advanced down the precipice into the sea, (and there were about two thousand;) and they drowned in the sea.
MAR 5:14 And the ones grazing the swine fled, and announced in the city, and in the fields. And they came forth to behold what it is taking place.
MAR 5:15 And they came to Jesus, and viewing the demon-possessed sitting down, and being dressed, and being of a sound mind, (the one having the legion;) and they feared.
MAR 5:16 And the ones beholding described to them how it happened to the one being demon-possessed, and concerning the swine.
MAR 5:17 And they began to appeal to him to go forth from their borders.
MAR 5:18 And of his stepping into the boat, the one having been demon-possessed appealed to him that he might be with him.
MAR 5:19 But Jesus would not allow him, but says to him, Go unto your house, to your own, and announce to them as much as the Lord did to you, and showed mercy on you!
MAR 5:20 And he went forth, and began to proclaim in the Decapolis as much as Jesus did for him. And all marveled.
MAR 5:21 And Jesus having passed through in the boat again unto the other side, there was gathered together a great multitude unto him; and he was by the sea.
MAR 5:22 And behold, there comes one of the chiefs of the synagogue, by name Jairus; and beholding him, he falls to his feet,
MAR 5:23 and appeals to him much, saying that, My young daughter is next to the last; that having come, you should place upon her your hands, so that she should be delivered; and she should live.
MAR 5:24 And he went forth with him; and a great multitude followed him, and squeezed together on him.
MAR 5:25 And a certain woman, being with a flow of blood twelve years,
MAR 5:26 and suffering much under many physicians, and having spent the things of hers - all, and not deriving benefit, but rather having come to the worse,
MAR 5:27 having heard concerning Jesus, having come among the multitude behind, touched his cloak.
MAR 5:28 For she said that, If only I should touch his garments, I shall be delivered.
MAR 5:29 And immediately the spring of her blood was dried; and she knew in the body that she was healed from the scourge.
MAR 5:30 And immediately Jesus realizing in himself the power went forth from out of him, having turned among the multitude, said, Who touched my garments?
MAR 5:31 And his disciples said to him, You see the multitude squeezing you, and you say, Who touched me?
MAR 5:32 And he looked round about to behold the one doing this.
MAR 5:33 And the woman being fearful and trembling, knowing what has happened to her, came and fell at him, and told him all the truth.
MAR 5:34 And he said to her, O daughter, the belief of yours has delivered you; go in peace, and be in health from your scourge!
MAR 5:35 While he was speaking, they came from the chief of the synagogue, saying that, Your daughter died; why yet inconvenience the teacher?
MAR 5:36 But Jesus immediately having heard the word being spoken, says to the chief of the synagogue, Do not fear, only believe!
MAR 5:37 And he did not allow anyone to follow together with him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.
MAR 5:38 And he comes unto the house of the chief of the synagogue, and views a tumult, and weeping, and much shouting.
MAR 5:39 And having entered, he says to them, Why make a disruption and weep? the child has not died, but sleeps.
MAR 5:40 And they ridiculed him. But casting out all, he takes to himself the father of the child, and the mother, and the ones with him, and he enters where the child was reclining.
MAR 5:41 And holding the hand of the child, he says to her, Talitha cumi! which is being translated, Young woman, to you I say, Arise!
MAR 5:42 And immediately the young woman arose, and walked; for she was twelve years old. And they were amazed with great astonishment.
MAR 5:43 And he warned them much that no one should know this; and he said to give to her to eat.
MAR 6:1 And he came forth from there, and went into his fatherland; and his disciples follow him.
MAR 6:2 And the sabbath taking place, he began to teach in the synagogue. And many hearing were overwhelmed, saying, From where did this one receive these things? and what wisdom having been given to him, that even such power takes place through his hands?
MAR 6:3 Is this not the son of the fabricator, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were stumbled in him.
MAR 6:4 And Jesus said to them that, A prophet is not without honor, except in his fatherland, and among the relatives, and in his own house.
MAR 6:5 And he was not able to do there not even one powerful work, except to a few ill ones having placed the hands upon, he cured.
MAR 6:6 And he marveled because of their unbelief. And he led about the towns round about, teaching.
MAR 6:7 And he calls on the twelve, and begins to send them two by two; and gave to them authority of the unclean spirits.
MAR 6:8 And he made exhortation to them that they should carry nothing in the way, except a rod only - no provision bag, no bread, no brass coin in the belt;
MAR 6:9 but sandals being tied on; and not putting on two inner garments.
MAR 6:10 And he said to them, Where ever you should enter into a house, there abide until whenever you should come forth from there!
MAR 6:11 And as many as should not receive you, nor should hear you, in going forth from there, shake off the dust underneath your feet for a testimony to them! Amen I say to you, More endurable will it be for Sodom or Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than that city.
MAR 6:12 And having come forth, they proclaimed that they should repent.
MAR 6:13 And they cast out many demons, and anointed many ill ones with oilolive oil., and they cured.
MAR 6:14 And king Herod heard; (for his name became open;) and said that, John, the one immersing, is arisen from the dead, and because of this the works of power operate in him.
MAR 6:15 Others said that, He is Elijah. And others said that, He is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.
MAR 6:16 And having heard, Herod said that, John whom I beheaded; this is he, he arose from the dead.
MAR 6:17 For he, Herod, having sent, seized John, and bound him in the prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother; for he married her.
MAR 6:18 For John said to Herod that, It is not allowed to you to have the wife of your brother.
MAR 6:19 But Herodias held it against him, and wanted to kill him; and was not able.
MAR 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing him as a just and holy man, and he preserved him; and having heard of him, he did many things, and with pleasure heard him.
MAR 6:21 And an opportune day having become, when Herod made a supper for his birthday to his great men, and to the commanders of thousands, and to the first ones of Galilee;
MAR 6:22 and her daughter having entered, (the one of Herodias,) and was dancing, and was pleasing to Herod and to the ones reclining together with him, the king said to the young woman, Ask me what ever you should want, and I will give it to you!
MAR 6:23 And he swore by an oath to her that, What ever you should ask me, I will give it to you, unto half of my kingdom.
MAR 6:24 And she having gone forth, said to her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the baptist.
MAR 6:25 And having entered immediately with haste to the king, she asked, saying, I want that you give to me immediately upon a platter the head of John the baptist.
MAR 6:26 And the king being dejected because of the oaths, and of the ones reclining together with him, did not want to disregard her.
MAR 6:27 And the king immediately having sent a guard, gave orders for his head to be brought. And having gone forth he beheaded him in the prison,
MAR 6:28 and brought his head upon a platter, and gave it to the young woman. And the young woman gave it to her mother.
MAR 6:29 And having heard, his disciples came and lifted his corpse, and put it in the tomb.
MAR 6:30 And the apostles gathered together to Jesus, and they reported to him all, even as much as they did, and as much as they taught.
MAR 6:31 And he said to them, You come by yourselves in private unto a desolate place, and rest a little! for the ones coming and the ones going were many, and not even did they have an opportune time to eat.
MAR 6:32 And he went forth unto a desolate place in the boat in private.
MAR 6:33 And they beheld them going away, and many recognized him, and they ran together there on foot from all of the cities, and went forth and came together to him.
MAR 6:34 And having come forth, Jesus beheld a great multitude, and was moved with compassion over them, for they were as sheep not having a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things.
MAR 6:35 And already the hour having been great, his disciples having come forward to him, say that, It is a desolate place, and already it is a great hour.
MAR 6:36 Dismiss them! that having gone forth into the fields round about, and towns, they should buy to themselves breads; for they do not have anything they shall eat.
MAR 6:37 And he, answering, said to them, You give to them yourselves something to eat! And they say to him, Having gone forth should we buy two hundred denarii of breads, and should we give to them to eat?
MAR 6:38 And he says to them, How many breads do you have? Go and see! And having known, they say, Five and two fishes.
MAR 6:39 And he gave orders to them to lie all down, parties by parties, upon the green grass.
MAR 6:40 And they reclined, plot by plot, by hundred, and by fifty.
MAR 6:41 And having taken the five breads and the two fishes, having looked up into the heaven, he blessed, and broke off in pieces of the breads, and gave to his disciples, that they should place near to them; and the two fishes he portioned to all.
MAR 6:42 And all ate, and were filled.
MAR 6:43 And they took up twelve hampers full of pieces, and of the fishes.
MAR 6:44 And the ones having eaten of the breads were about five thousand men.
MAR 6:45 And immediately he compelled his disciples to step into the boat, and to lead to the other side to Bethsaida, until he should dismiss the multitude.
MAR 6:46 And having dismissed them, he went forth into the mountain to pray.
MAR 6:47 And evening having become, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he was alone upon the land.
MAR 6:48 And he beheld them being tormented in the rowing; for the wind was opposite them. And around the fourth watch of the night he comes to them, walking upon the sea. And he wanted to go by them.
MAR 6:49 And they, beholding him walking upon the sea, thought it to be a phantom, and shouted aloud.
MAR 6:50 For all beheld him, and were disturbed. And immediately he spoke with them, and says to them, Take courage! I am he; fear not!
MAR 6:51 And he ascended to them into the boat; and the wind abated. And exceedingly beyond extra they were amazed and marveled among themselves,
MAR 6:52 for they perceived not concerning the breads; for their heart was calloused.
MAR 6:53 And having passed through, they came unto the land of Gennesaret, and were moored.
MAR 6:54 And on their coming forth from out of the boat, immediately having recognized him,
MAR 6:55 all running round about that place, began to carry round about upon the litters the ones having it badly, where they were hearing that - He is there.
MAR 6:56 And where ever he entered, into towns, or cities, or fields, they put the ones being invalid in the markets, and appealed to him that if only they could just touch the decorative hem of his cloak. And as many as touched him were delivered.
MAR 7:1 And the Pharisees gathered together to him, and some of the scribes, having come from Jerusalem.
MAR 7:2 And seeing certain ones of his disciples with common hands, (that is to say unwashed,) eating bread, they complained.
MAR 7:3 For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, unless they washed the hands with a fist, they do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders.
MAR 7:4 And coming from markets, if they should not immerse, they do not eat. And many other things there are which they take on themselves to hold - immersion of cups, and quart pitchers, and brass kettles, and dinner beds.
MAR 7:5 Thereupon the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but with unwashed hands they eat the bread?
MAR 7:6 And he answering said to them that, Well Isaiah prophesied concerning you the hypocrites, as it has been written, This people esteem me with the lip, but their heart is far off at a distance from me.
MAR 7:7 And in vain they worship me, teaching as instructions the precepts of men.
MAR 7:8 For leaving the commandment of God you hold the tradition of men - immersions of quart pitchers and cups; and many other similar such things you do.
MAR 7:9 And he said to them, Well you annul the commandment of God, that you give heed to your tradition.
MAR 7:10 For Moses said, Esteem your father and your mother! and, Let the one speaking evil of father or mother come to an end in death!
MAR 7:11 But you say, If a man should say to a father or to a mother, It is corban, (which is a gift offering,) what ever of me you should derive benefit,
MAR 7:12 that no longer you allow him to do anything to his father or to his mother;
MAR 7:13 thereby voiding the word of God by your tradition, which you delivered. And many similar such things you do.
MAR 7:14 And having called all the multitude, he said to them, Hear me all, and perceive!
MAR 7:15 There is nothing from outside of man entering into him which is able to make him unclean; but the things going forth from him, those are the things making the man unclean.
MAR 7:16 If any has ears to hear let him hear!
MAR 7:17 And when he entered into a house from the multitude, his disciples asked him concerning the parable.
MAR 7:18 And he says to them, Thus also you are senseless? Do you not comprehend that everything from outside entering into the man is not able to make him unclean.
MAR 7:19 For it enters not into his heart, but into the belly; and into the bowel it goes forth, cleansing all the foods.
MAR 7:20 And he said that, The thing going forth from out of the man, that defiles the man.
MAR 7:21 For from inside, from out of the heart of men evil thoughts go forth - adulteries, harlotries, murders,
MAR 7:22 frauds, desires for wealth, wickednesses, treachery, lewdness, a wicked eye, blasphemy, pride, folly.
MAR 7:23 All these evils from inside go forth, and defile the man.
MAR 7:24 And from there, having risen up, he went forth into the boundaries of Tyre and Sidon, and entered into the house, wanting no one to know; but he was not able to be unaware.
MAR 7:25 For a woman having heard about him, of which her young daughter had an unclean spirit, having come, fell at his feet.
MAR 7:26 And the woman was a Greek, Syro-phoenician by race; and she asked him that he should cast out the demon from her daughter.
MAR 7:27 And Jesus said to her, Allow the children first to be filled! For it is not good to take the bread of the children, and to throw it to the little dogs.
MAR 7:28 And she answered and says to him, Yes, O Lord, but even the little dogs underneath 7the 8table 1eat 2from 3the 4crumbs 5of the 6children.
MAR 7:29 And he said to her, On account of this word, go! the demon has come forth from out of your daughter.
MAR 7:30 And having gone forth unto her house, she found the demon having gone forth, and the daughter being laid upon the bed.
MAR 7:31 And again, having come forth from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, he came to the sea Galilee, in the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
MAR 7:32 And they bring to him a deaf-mute stammering; and they appeal to him that he should place his hand upon him.
MAR 7:33 And taking him away from the multitude in private, he put his fingers into his ears, and having spit, touched his tongue.
MAR 7:34 And having looked up into the heaven, he moaned, and says to him, Ephphatha, which is, Be opened wide!
MAR 7:35 And immediately were opened wide his hearing faculties, and the bond of his tongue was untied, and he spoke rightly.
MAR 7:36 And he warned them that they should speak to no one. But as much as he warned them, rather more extra they proclaimed.
MAR 7:37 And more exceedingly they were overwhelmed, saying, He has done all things well; both the deaf he makes to hear, and the speechless to speak.
MAR 8:1 In those days, a very great multitude being, and not having anything to eat, Jesus, having called his disciples, says to them,
MAR 8:2 I am moved with compassion over the multitude, for already three days they remain with me, and have not anything to eat.
MAR 8:3 And if I should release them hungry from fasting unto their house, they shall be fainting in the way; for some of them have come from far off.
MAR 8:4 And his disciples answered to him, saying, From what place shall any of these here be able to fill of bread at a desolate place?
MAR 8:5 And he asked them, How many breads have you? And they said, Seven.
MAR 8:6 And he gave exhortation to the multitude to recline upon the ground. And having taken the seven breads, having given thanks, he broke, and gave to his disciples, that they should place them near. And they placed them near to the multitude.
MAR 8:7 And they had a few small fishes. And having blessed, he said to place them near also.
MAR 8:8 And they ate, and were filled. And they lifted up an abundance of pieces - seven small baskets.
MAR 8:9 And the ones eating were about four thousand. And he dismissed them.
MAR 8:10 And immediately having stepped into the boat with his disciples, he came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
MAR 8:11 And the Pharisees came forth, and began to debate with him, seeking from him a sign from the heaven, testing him.
MAR 8:12 And having groaned in his spirit, he says, Why does this generation seek anxiously a sign? amen I say to you, Shall a sign be given to this generation?
MAR 8:13 And having left them, again having stepped into the boat, he went forth unto the other side.
MAR 8:14 And they forgot to take breads, and except for one bread, they did not have any with themselves in the boat.
MAR 8:15 And he warned them saying, See! Take heed of the yeast of the Pharisees, and of the yeast of Herod!
MAR 8:16 And they reasoned with one another, saying that, We do not have breads.
MAR 8:17 And knowing, Jesus says to them, Why do you reason that you do not have breads? Not yet do you comprehend, nor perceive? Do you still have your heart being calloused?
MAR 8:18 Having eyes, do you not see? and ears having, do you not hear? and do you not remember?
MAR 8:19 When the five breads I broke for the five thousand, how many hampers full of pieces did you lift? They say to him, Twelve.
MAR 8:20 And when the seven for the four thousand, how many small baskets full of pieces did you lift? And they said, Seven.
MAR 8:21 And he said to them, How do you not perceive?
MAR 8:22 And he comes into Bethsaida; and they bring to him a blind man, and appeal to him that he should touch him.
MAR 8:23 And taking hold of the hand of the blind man, he led him outside of the town; and having spit into his eyes, having placed his hands to him, he asks him if he sees anything.
MAR 8:24 And having looked up, he said, I see the men as trees, walking.
MAR 8:25 Then again he placed the hands upon his eyes, and he made him to look up. And he was restored, and looked clearly on all.
MAR 8:26 And he sent him unto his house, saying, Neither into the town should you enter, nor should you speak to any in the town.
MAR 8:27 And Jesus went forth, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea of Philippi. And in the way he asks his disciples, saying to them, Whom do men say me to be?
MAR 8:28 And they answered, John the Baptist. And others, Elijah; and others, One of the prophets.
MAR 8:29 And he says to them, And you, whom do you say me to be? And answering, Peter says to him, You are the Christ.
MAR 8:30 And he gave reproach to them that to no one they should tell concerning him.
MAR 8:31 And he began to teach them that it is necessary for the son of man to suffer many things, and to be rejected by the elders, and chief priests, and scribes, and to be killed, and after three days to rise up.
MAR 8:32 And in an open manner he spoke the matter. And Peter taking him to himself, began to reproach him.
MAR 8:33 And he turned, and beholding his disciples, he reproached Peter, saying, Go behind me, satanadversary.! For you do not think the things of God, but the things of men.
MAR 8:34 And having called the multitude with his disciples, he said to them, Whoever wants to come after me, let him totally reject himself, and lift his cross, and follow me!
MAR 8:35 For who ever should want to preserve his life shall lose it; and who ever should lose his life, because of me and of the good news, this one will preserve it.
MAR 8:36 For what will it benefit a man, if he should gain the whole world, and suffer loss of his soul?
MAR 8:37 Or what shall a man give as a bargain for his soul?
MAR 8:38 For who ever should be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation; even the son of man shall be ashamed of him, whenever he should come in the glory of his father with the holy angels.
MAR 9:1 And he said to them, Amen I say to you that, There are some of the ones here standing, who in no way shall taste of death, until whenever they should behold the kingdom of God coming in power.
MAR 9:2 And after six days Jesus took to himself Peter, and James, and John. And he brought them into a high mountain in private alone. And he was transformed in front of them.
MAR 9:3 And his garments became shining, exceedingly white as snow; such as a fuller upon the earth is not able to whiten.
MAR 9:4 And appeared unto them Elijah with Moses; and they were conversing together with Jesus.
MAR 9:5 And responding Peter says to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and we should make three tents; to you one, and Moses one, and Elijah one.
MAR 9:6 For he knew not what he shall speak; for they were frightened.
MAR 9:7 And there became a cloud overshadowing them. And came a voice from out of the cloud, saying, This is my son the beloved; hear him!
MAR 9:8 And suddenly having looked round about, no longer they beheld anyone, but Jesus alone with themselves.
MAR 9:9 And of their going down from the mountain, he gave warning to them that to no one should they describe what they saw, except whenever the son of man should be raised up from the dead.
MAR 9:10 And the matter they kept to themselves, debating what is the thing - to rise up from the dead?
MAR 9:11 And they asked him, saying that, The scribes say that it is necessary for Elijah to come first.
MAR 9:12 And he answering said to them, Elijah indeed having come first restores all things; and how it has been written about the son of man, that many things he should suffer, and should be treated with contempt.
MAR 9:13 And I say to you that, Even Elijah has come, and they did to him as much as they wanted, as it was written of him.
MAR 9:14 And having come to the disciples, he beheld a great multitude around them, and scribes debating with them.
MAR 9:15 And immediately all the multitude beholding him were astonished, and were running up to greet him.
MAR 9:16 And he asked the scribes, What do you debate with them?
MAR 9:17 And answering one from out of the multitude said, Teacher, I brought my son to you, having a speechless spirit;
MAR 9:18 and where ever he should be overtaken it tears him; and he foams, and grinds his teeth, and he withers. And I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out; and they prevailed not.
MAR 9:19 And answering to him, he says, O unbelieving generation, for how long will I be to you? for how long shall I endure you? bring him to me!
MAR 9:20 And they brought him to him. And beholding him, immediately the spirit threw him into a spasm; and having fallen upon the ground, he rolled foaming.
MAR 9:21 And he asked his father, How long a time is it that this has happened to him? And he said, From childhood.
MAR 9:22 And often it threw him both into the fire, and into waters, that it should destroy him. But if any way you are able, help us, be moved with compassion upon us!
MAR 9:23 And Jesus said to him, The thing, if you are able to believe - all things are possible to the one believing.
MAR 9:24 And immediately the father of the child crying out with tears, said, I believe, O Lord, help my unbelief!
MAR 9:25 And Jesus beholding that the multitude ran together, he reproached the unclean spirit, saying to it, O spirit speechless and mute; I give orders to you - Come forth out of him, and no longer should you enter into him!
MAR 9:26 And having cried out, and greatly throwing him into a spasm, it came forth. And he became as dead, so as for many to say that he died.
MAR 9:27 And Jesus, having held him by the hand, raised him. And he rose up.
MAR 9:28 And in his entering into the house, his disciples responded to him in private, saying that, We were not able to cast it out.
MAR 9:29 And he said to them, This kind by nothing is able to come forth, except by prayer and fasting.
MAR 9:30 And from there having gone forth, they passed through Galilee; and he did not want that any should know.
MAR 9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said to them that, The son of man is delivered up into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and having been killed, the third day he shall rise up.
MAR 9:32 But they knew not the saying, and feared to ask him.
MAR 9:33 And he came into Capernaum, and being in the house he asked them, What were you reasoning in the way among yourselves?
MAR 9:34 And they were silent; for with one another they were reasoning in the way, who was greater.
MAR 9:35 And sitting down, he called the twelve, and says to them, If anyone wants to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all.
MAR 9:36 And having taken a child, he set it in the midst of them. And having embraced it, he said to them,
MAR 9:37 Who ever should receive one of such children in my name, receives me. And who ever should receive me, receives not me, but the one having sent me.
MAR 9:38 And John responded to him, saying, Teacher, we beheld a certain one casting out demons in your name, who does not follow us; and we restrained him, for he does not follow us.
MAR 9:39 And Jesus said, Do not restrain him! for there is no none who shall do a work of power in my name, and be able to quickly speak evil of me.
MAR 9:40 For he who is not against us is for us.
MAR 9:41 For who ever should give you a drink of a cup of water in my name, for you are of Christ, amen I say to you, in no way should he lose his wage.
MAR 9:42 And whoever should cause to stumble one of the little ones trusting in me, it is good to him rather if a mill stone encompass around his neck, and to be thrown into the sea.
MAR 9:43 And if your hand should cause you to stumble, cut it off! it is good to you to enter crippled into life, rather than having two hands to go forth into Gehenna, into the inextinguishable fire;
MAR 9:44 where their worm does not come to an end, and the fire is not extinguished.
MAR 9:45 And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off! it is good to you to enter into life lame, rather than having two feet to be thrown into Gehenna, into the inextinguishable fire;
MAR 9:46 where their worm does not come to an end, and the fire is not extinguished.
MAR 9:47 And if your eye causes you to stumble, cast it out! it is good to you to enter one-eyed into the kingdom of God, rather than having two eyes to be thrown into Gehenna of fire;
MAR 9:48 where their worm does not come to an end, and the fire is not extinguished.
MAR 9:49 For all shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt.
MAR 9:50 The salt is good; but if the salt becomes insipid, by what means shall you season? Have salt in yourselves, and make peace with one another!
MAR 10:1 And from there rising up, he comes unto the borders of Judea by the other side of the Jordan. And multitudes went again to him; and, as he was accustomed, again he taught them.
MAR 10:2 And coming forward Pharisees asked him, Is it allowed for a man to dismiss a wife? testing him.
MAR 10:3 And answering he said to them, What did Moses give charge to you?
MAR 10:4 And they said, Moses committed to one's care to write a scroll of divorce, and to dismiss.
MAR 10:5 And answering Jesus said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart he wrote to you this commandment.
MAR 10:6 But from the beginning of creation God made them male and female.
MAR 10:7 Because of this a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be cleaved to his wife;
MAR 10:8 and the two will be for one flesh. So that no longer are they two, but one flesh.
MAR 10:9 What then God yoked together, let not man separate!
MAR 10:10 And in the house again his disciples asked him concerning the same.
MAR 10:11 And he says to them, Who ever should dismiss his wife, and should marry another, commits adultery against her.
MAR 10:12 And if a wife should dismiss her husband, and should marry another, she commits adultery.
MAR 10:13 And they brought to him children, that he should touch them. But the disciples gave reproach to the ones bringing them.
MAR 10:14 And having beheld, Jesus was indignant, and said to them, Allow the children to come to me, and do not restrain them! for of the ones such is the kingdom of God.
MAR 10:15 Amen I say to you, Who ever should not receive the kingdom of God as a child, in no way shall he enter into it.
MAR 10:16 And having embraced them, having put his hands upon them, he blessed them.
MAR 10:17 And in his going forth into the way, one running up, and kneeling at him, asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do that I should inherit eternal life?
MAR 10:18 And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? no one is good except one, God.
MAR 10:19 The commandments you know, Do not commit adultery. Do not murder. Do not steal. Do not witness falsely. Do not wrong. Esteem your father and mother!
MAR 10:20 And he answering said to him, Teacher, these things all I kept from my youth.
MAR 10:21 And Jesus looking at him loved him, and said to him, One thing to you is lacking. Go, as much as you have sell, and give to the poor! and you shall have treasure in heaven. And come follow me, taking up the cross!
MAR 10:22 But he being gloomy over the word went forth fretting; for he was holding many possessions.
MAR 10:23 And looking round about, Jesus says to his disciples, How with difficulty the ones having things shall enter into the kingdom of God.
MAR 10:24 And the disciples were distraught at his words. And Jesus again responding says to them, Sons, how difficult it is for the ones yielding upon things to enter into the kingdom of God.
MAR 10:25 It is easier for a camel to enter through the hole made by an awl, than a rich person to enter into the kingdom of God.
MAR 10:26 And they were extremely overwhelmed, saying to themselves, And who is able to be delivered?
MAR 10:27 And looking at them Jesus says, With men impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God.
MAR 10:28 And Peter began to say to him, Behold, we left all, and followed you.
MAR 10:29 And answering Jesus said, Amen I say to you, There is no one who left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, because of me, and the good news,
MAR 10:30 that should not receive a hundred fold now in this time - houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and fields, with persecutions; and in the coming eon life eternal.
MAR 10:31 But many first will be last; and the last first.
MAR 10:32 And they were in the way ascending into Jerusalem; and Jesus was leading before them. And they were distraught; and following, they were afraid. And having taken to himself again the twelve, he began to speak to them the things about to come to pass to him, saying,
MAR 10:33 For behold, we ascend into Jerusalem; and the son of man shall be delivered up to the chief priests, and to the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and will deliver him up to the nations.
MAR 10:34 And they shall mock him, and shall whip him, and shall spit on him, and shall kill him; and in the third day he will rise up.
MAR 10:35 And going to him, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, were saying, Teacher, we want that what ever we should ask you should do for us.
MAR 10:36 And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you?
MAR 10:37 And they said to him, Give to us that one at your right, and one at your left, should sit in your glory.
MAR 10:38 And Jesus said to them, You know not what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink? and the immersion which I am immersed, to be immersed?
MAR 10:39 And they said to him, We are able. But Jesus said to them, The cup indeed which I drink, you shall drink; and the immersion which I am immersed, you shall be immersed.
MAR 10:40 But the sitting at my right and at my left is not mine to give; but to ones whom it has been prepared.
MAR 10:41 And hearing, the ten began to be indignant on account of James and John.
MAR 10:42 But Jesus having called them, says to them, You know that the ones seeming to rule the nations dominate them; and their great ones exercise authority over them.
MAR 10:43 But thus not will it be with you. But who ever should want to become great among you, shall be your servant.
MAR 10:44 And who ever of you should want to become first, shall be servant of all.
MAR 10:45 For even the son of man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
MAR 10:46 And they come unto Jericho. And of his exiting from Jericho and his disciples and a fit multitude, a son of Timaeus - Bar Timaeus the blind man was sat down by the way begging.
MAR 10:47 And having heard that it is Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and to say, The son of David, Jesus, show mercy on me!
MAR 10:48 And many reproached him that he should keep silent. But the more rather he cried out, O son of David, show mercy on me!
MAR 10:49 And Jesus stopping, spoke for him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying to him, Take courage! Arise! he calls you.
MAR 10:50 And throwing off his cloak, having risen up, he came to Jesus.
MAR 10:51 And responding Jesus says to him, What do you want I should do unto you? And the blind man said to him, Rabboni, that I should gain sight.
MAR 10:52 And Jesus said to him, Go! the belief of yours has delivered you. And immediately he gained sight, and followed Jesus in the way.
MAR 11:1 And when they approached unto Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany, to the mount olives, he sends two of his disciples.
MAR 11:2 And he says to them, Go into the town in front of you! and immediately entering into it, you will find a foal being tied, upon which not one of men has sat; having untied it, lead it!
MAR 11:3 And if anyone should say to you, Why do you do this? say that, His master has need; and immediately he will send it here.
MAR 11:4 And they went forth, and found the foal being tied at the door outside upon the plaza; and they untied him.
MAR 11:5 And some of the ones standing there said to them, What do you do, untying the foal?
MAR 11:6 And they spoke to them as Jesus gave charge; and they allowed them.
MAR 11:7 And they led the foal to Jesus. And they put upon him their cloaks. And he sat upon him.
MAR 11:8 And many spread out their cloaks in the way. And others beat boughs from out of the trees, and spread them out in the way.
MAR 11:9 And the ones leading before, and the ones following, cried out, saying, Hosanna; being blessed is the one coming in the name of the Lord.
MAR 11:10 Being blessed is the coming kingdom in the name of the Lord, of the one of our father David. Hosanna in the highest.
MAR 11:11 And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple. And having looked round about all, the hour being already late, he went forth into Bethany with the twelve.
MAR 11:12 And in the next day, of their coming forth from Bethany, he hungered.
MAR 11:13 And beholding a fig-tree far off having leaves, he went to see if he shall find anything on it. And having come upon it, he found nothing except leaves; for it was not the season of figs.
MAR 11:14 And responding Jesus said to it, No longer from you into the eon may not one fruit be to eat. And his disciples heard.
MAR 11:15 And they come into Jerusalem. And Jesus having entered into the temple, began to cast out the ones selling and buying in the temple, and the tables of the money-changers and the chairs of the ones selling the doves he overturned;
MAR 11:16 and he did not allow that any carry vessels through the temple.
MAR 11:17 And he taught, saying to them, Has it not been written that, My house shall be called a house of prayer by all the nations? but you made it a cave of robbers.
MAR 11:18 And the scribes and the chief priests heard, and sought how they should destroy him; for they feared him, for all the multitude were overwhelmed by his teaching.
MAR 11:19 And when evening became, he went forth outside the city.
MAR 11:20 And in the morning, coming near, they beheld the fig-tree being dried up from the roots.
MAR 11:21 And calling to mind, Peter says to him, Rabbi, see! the fig-tree which you cursed is dried up.
MAR 11:22 And responding Jesus says to them, Have belief of God!
MAR 11:23 For amen I say to you that, Who ever should say to this mountain, Be lifted, and be thrown into the sea; and should not examine in his heart, but should trust that what he says takes place; it will be to him what ever he should say!
MAR 11:24 On account of this I say to you, All as much as you ask praying, trust that you receive, and it will be to you!
MAR 11:25 And whenever you stand firmly praying, forgive! if you have anything against anyone. That also your father in the heavens should forgive you your transgressions.
MAR 11:26 But if you do not forgive, not even your father in the heavens shall forgive your transgressions.
MAR 11:27 And they come again into Jerusalem. And in the temple of his walking, there comes to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders.
MAR 11:28 And they say to him, By what authority do you do these things? and who gave to you this authority that you should do these things?
MAR 11:29 And Jesus answering said to them, And I shall ask you one matter, and you answer me! and I will tell to you by what authority I do these things.
MAR 11:30 The immersion of John, was it from heaven, or from men? You answer me!
MAR 11:31 And they considered it among themselves, saying, If we should say, From heaven; he will say, Why then did you not believe him?
MAR 11:32 But if we should say, From men; they feared the people; for all held that John really was a prophet.
MAR 11:33 And answering they say to Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus answering says to them, Nor I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
MAR 12:1 And he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard, and placed around it a barrier, and dug a wine-vat, and built a tower, and handed it over to growers, and traveled abroad.
MAR 12:2 And he sent to the growers a servant at the season, that he should receive from the growers of the fruit of the vineyard.
MAR 12:3 But they, having taken, flayed him, and sent him away empty.
MAR 12:4 And again he sent to them another servant; and that one, having stoned, they smote on the head, and sent away being disgraced.
MAR 12:5 And again another he sent; and that one they killed, and many others - some flaying, and some killing.
MAR 12:6 Still then having one son, his beloved, he sent him also to them last, saying that, They will show respect for my son.
MAR 12:7 But those growers said to themselves that, This is the heir; come, we should kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.
MAR 12:8 And taking him, they killed him, and cast him outside the vineyard.
MAR 12:9 What then shall he do - the master of the vineyard? He will come and destroy the growers, and will give the vineyard to others.
MAR 12:10 Nor did you read this scripture? The stone which the ones building rejected, this is become for head of the corner.
MAR 12:11 By the Lord this happened, and it is wonderful in our eyes.
MAR 12:12 And they sought to seize him, but feared the multitude; for they knew that he spoke the parable against them. And leaving him, they went forth.
MAR 12:13 And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, that they should catch him in a matter.
MAR 12:14 And they having come, say to him, Teacher, we know that you are true, and there is not a care to you concerning anyone. For you see not to the person of men, but in truth the way of God you teach - is it allowed to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
MAR 12:15 Should we give, or should we not give? And he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? Bring to me a denarius, that I should see it!
MAR 12:16 And they brought it. And he says to them, Whose image is this, and the inscription? And they said to him, Caesar.
MAR 12:17 And answering, Jesus said to them, Render the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God. And they marveled at him.
MAR 12:18 And Sadducees came to him who say a resurrection not to be; and they asked him, saying,
MAR 12:19 Teacher, Moses wrote to us, that if any brother should die, and should leave behind a wife, and she should not leave children, that his brother should take his wife, and should raise up seed to his brother.
MAR 12:20 There were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and dying did not leave seed.
MAR 12:21 And the second took her, and he died, and not even he left seed. And the third likewise.
MAR 12:22 And the seven took her, and left not a seed. Last of all the wife died also.
MAR 12:23 In then the resurrection, whenever they shall arise, which of them shall she be wife? for the seven had her for a wife.
MAR 12:24 And answering Jesus said to them, On account of this do you not err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God?
MAR 12:25 For whenever they rise up from the dead, neither they marry, nor are given in marriage; but are as angels in the heavens.
MAR 12:26 But concerning the dead, that they arise; did you not read in the book of Moses, about the bush as God spoke to him? saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
MAR 12:27 He is not the God of the dead, but God of the living. You then greatly erred.
MAR 12:28 And one of the scribes having come forward, having heard them debating, knowing that he answered well to them, asked him, Which is foremost commandment of all?
MAR 12:29 And Jesus answered to him that, Foremost of all of the commandments, Hear, O Israel! The Lord our God is one Lord.
MAR 12:30 And You shall love the Lord your God from all your heart, and from all your soul, and from all your thought, and from all your strength. This is the foremost commandment.
MAR 12:31 And the second is likened to this, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Another commandment is not greater than these.
MAR 12:32 And the scribe said to him, Well, teacher, in truth you spoke; that there is one God; and there is not another besides him.
MAR 12:33 And to love him from the entire heart, and from the entire understanding, and from the entire soul, and from the entire strength, and to love the neighbor as himself, is more than all the whole burnt offerings and the sacrifice offerings.
MAR 12:34 And Jesus beholding him, that prudently he answered, said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one any longer dared to question him.
MAR 12:35 And responding Jesus said, of teaching in the temple, How say the scribes that the Christ is son of David?
MAR 12:36 For David himself said by holy spirit, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit down at my right until whenever I should make your enemies a footstool for your feet!
MAR 12:37 David then himself calls him Lord; then from where is he his son? And the great multitude heard him with pleasure.
MAR 12:38 And he said to them in his teaching, Take heed of the scribes, the ones wanting to walk in robes, and greetings in the markets,
MAR 12:39 and first seats in the synagogues, and first place at the suppers;
MAR 12:40 the ones devouring the houses of the widows, and making an excuse for praying long; these shall receive more extra judgment!
MAR 12:41 And Jesus having sat down over against the treasury, viewed how the multitude cast money into the treasury. And many rich cast much.
MAR 12:42 And one poor widow having come, threw two leptas, which is a quadrans.
MAR 12:43 And having called his disciples, he says to them, Amen I say to you that, This poor widow cast more than all of the ones casting into the treasury.
MAR 12:44 For all from out of their abundance cast; but this woman from her deficiency cast all as much as she had, her entire livelihood.
MAR 13:1 And as he was going forth from out of the temple, one of his disciples says to him, Teacher, behold what stones and what constructions!
MAR 13:2 And Jesus responding said to him, You see these great constructions? in no way shall there be left stone upon stone which shall not be broken up.
MAR 13:3 And as he was sitting in the mount of olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him in private,
MAR 13:4 Tell to us when these things will be, and what the sign is whenever all these things are about to be completed!
MAR 13:5 And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed that not anyone should mislead you!
MAR 13:6 For many shall come in my name, saying that, I am he; and shall mislead many.
MAR 13:7 But whenever you should hear of wars and reports of wars, be not alarmed! for it is necessary to take place; but not yet is the end.
MAR 13:8 For shall rise up nation against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there shall be earthquakes in different places, and there shall be famines and disturbances; these are the beginnings of pangs.
MAR 13:9 And you take heed yourselves! for they shall deliver you up unto sanhedrins; and in synagogues you shall be flayed; and before governors and kings you shall be stood because of me, for a testimony to them.
MAR 13:10 And unto all the nations the good news must first be proclaimed.
MAR 13:11 And whenever they should lead you, being delivered up, do not be anxious beforehand what you should speak, nor meditate upon! But what ever should be given to you in that hour, this speak! for you are not the ones speaking, but the holy spirit.
MAR 13:12 And brother shall deliver up brother unto death, and a father a child; and children shall rise up against parents, and shall put them to death.
MAR 13:13 And you shall be a thing being detested by all on account of my name. But the one remaining unto the end, this one shall be delivered.
MAR 13:14 And whenever you should behold the abomination of the desolation, the thing having been spoken by Daniel the prophet, standing where it must not, (let the one reading comprehend!) then let the ones in Judea flee into the mountains!
MAR 13:15 And the one upon the roof, let him go not down into the house, nor enter to take anything from out of his house!
MAR 13:16 And the one being in the field, let him not turn back to take his cloak!
MAR 13:17 And woe to the ones having one in the womb, and to the ones nursing in those days.
MAR 13:18 And pray that your flight might not be in the winter!
MAR 13:19 For those days will be an affliction, such as has not taken place with this kind from the beginning of the creation which God created until the present, and in no way shall be.
MAR 13:20 And unless the Lord cut short the days, not would any flesh have escaped; but on account of the chosen ones, whom he chose, he cut short the days.
MAR 13:21 And then if any should say to you, behold, here is the Christ; or, Behold, there - do not believe it!
MAR 13:22 For shall arise false christs and false prophets, and shall give signs and miracles, to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen ones.
MAR 13:23 But you take heed! Behold, I have described beforehand to you all things.
MAR 13:24 And in those days, after that affliction, the sun shall be made dark, and the moon shall not give her brightness,
MAR 13:25 and the stars of the heaven will be falling off, and the powers in the heavens shall be shaken.
MAR 13:26 And then they shall see the son of man coming in clouds with great power and glory.
MAR 13:27 And then he shall send his angels, and they will assemble his chosen ones from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth unto the uttermost part of heaven.
MAR 13:28 But from the fig-tree learn the parable! Whenever already her tender branches come to pass, and she should spring forth the leaves, know that summer is near!
MAR 13:29 So also you, whenever you should see these taking place, know that it is near at the doors!
MAR 13:30 Amen I say to you that, In no way should this generation pass by, until of which all these should take place.
MAR 13:31 The heaven and the earth shall pass away; but my words in no way shall pass away.
MAR 13:32 But concerning that day and of the hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the son - only the father.
MAR 13:33 Take heed, be awake and pray! For you know not when the time is.
MAR 13:34 It is as a man going abroad, leaving his house, and giving to his servants the authority, and to each one his work, and gave charge to the doorkeeper that he should be vigilant.
MAR 13:35 Be vigilant then! for you know not when the master of the house comes - at evening, or at midnight, or at the crowing of a rooster, or in the morning.
MAR 13:36 Lest coming suddenly he should find you sleeping.
MAR 13:37 And what shall I say to you - to all I say, Be vigilant!
MAR 14:1 And it was the passover, and the holiday of the unleavened breads after two days. And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they should kill him by treachery seizing him.
MAR 14:2 And they said, Not during the holiday, lest at any time there shall be a tumult of the people.
MAR 14:3 And he being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, in his reclining, came a woman having an alabaster jar of perfumed liquid spikenard of great cost. And having broken the alabaster jar, she poured out on his head.
MAR 14:4 And there were some being indignant within themselves, and saying, For why has this loss of perfumed liquid taken place?
MAR 14:5 For it was possible to sell this above three hundred denarii, and to be given to the poor; and they strictly charged her.
MAR 14:6 And Jesus said, Let her go! Why do you make troubles for her? she worked a good work for me.
MAR 14:7 For at all times you have the poor among yourselves, and whenever you want you are able to do good for them; but you do not have me at all times.
MAR 14:8 What she has, she did; she first took to perfume my body for the entombing.
MAR 14:9 Amen I say to you, Where ever this good news should be proclaimed in the entire world, even what this woman did shall be spoken for her memorial.
MAR 14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went forth to the chief priests, that he should deliver him up to them.
MAR 14:11 And they hearing, rejoiced. And they promised to give money to him. And he sought how opportunely he should deliver him up.
MAR 14:12 And on the first day of the unleavened breads, when they sacrifice the passover, his disciples say to him, Where do you want, that going forth, we shall prepare that you should eat the passover?
MAR 14:13 And he sends two of his disciples, and says to them, Go into the city, and a man will meet you bearing a clay vessel of water - you follow him!
MAR 14:14 And where ever he should enter, say to the master of the house that, The teacher says, Where is the lodging where I should eat the passover with my disciples?
MAR 14:15 And he will show to you a great upper room being spread out prepared; there prepare for us!
MAR 14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found it as he said to them. And they prepared the passover.
MAR 14:17 And evening having become, he comes with the twelve.
MAR 14:18 And as they were reclining and eating, Jesus said, Amen I say to you that, One of you shall deliver me up - the one eating with me.
MAR 14:19 And they began to grieve, and to say to him one by one, No, how I? and another, No, how I?
MAR 14:20 And answering he said to them, One from out of the twelve dipping with me into the saucer.
MAR 14:21 Indeed the son of man goes away, as it has been written concerning him. But woe to that man by whom the son of man is delivered up; it was good to him if that man was not born.
MAR 14:22 And as they were eating, Jesus having taken the bread, having blessed, broke, and gave to them. And he said, Take! Eat! This is my body.
MAR 14:23 And having taken the cup, having given thanks, he gave to them; and all drank of it.
MAR 14:24 And he said to them, This is my blood of the new covenant, being poured out for many.
MAR 14:25 Amen I say to you that, No longer in any way shall I drink of the offspring of the grapevine, until that day whenever I should drink it new in the kingdom of God.
MAR 14:26 And having sung praise, they came forth unto the mount of olives.
MAR 14:27 And Jesus says to them that, All shall be stumbled in me in this night. For it has been written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be dispersed.
MAR 14:28 But after my arising, I will lead before you into Galilee.
MAR 14:29 And Peter said to him, Even if all shall be stumbled, yet not I.
MAR 14:30 And Jesus says to him, Amen I say to you that, Today in this night, before twice the rooster calls out loud, three times you shall totally reject me.
MAR 14:31 And he all the extra said, Rather if it should be necessary for me to die together with you, in no way shall I totally reject you. And likewise also all spoke.
MAR 14:32 And they came unto a place of which the name is Gethsemane. And he says to his disciples, Sit here while I pray!
MAR 14:33 And taking Peter and James and John with himself, that he began to be astonished and anxious.
MAR 14:34 And he says to them, My soul is dejected unto death. Abide here and be vigilant!
MAR 14:35 And having gone forth a little, he fell upon the ground, and prayed that, if it is possible the hour might pass from him.
MAR 14:36 And he said, Abba father, all things are possible with you; carry away this cup from me! But not what I want, but what you want.
MAR 14:37 And he comes and finds them sleeping. And he says to Peter, Simon, do you sleep? Were you not able one hour to be vigilant?
MAR 14:38 Be vigilant and pray, that you should not enter into a test! Indeed the spirit is eager, but the flesh weak.
MAR 14:39 And again having gone forth he prayed, having said the same word.
MAR 14:40 And having returned, he found them again sleeping, for their eyes were being weighed down, and they did not know what they should answer to him.
MAR 14:41 And he comes the third time, and says to them, Sleep the remaining, and rest! Be at a distance! the hour came. Behold, the son of man is delivered up into the hands of sinners.
MAR 14:42 Arise! we should lead on. Behold, the one delivering me up approaches.
MAR 14:43 And immediately while he was speaking, Judas comes, being one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and wood spears, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
MAR 14:44 And the one delivering him up had given an agreed upon sign to them, saying, Whom ever I should kiss, it is he - seize him, and take him away safely!
MAR 14:45 And having come, immediately having come forward to him, he says to him, Rabbi, rabbi - Hail rabbi!; and kissed him.
MAR 14:46 And they put upon him their hands, and seized him.
MAR 14:47 But a certain one of the ones standing by, having unsheathed the sword, hit the servant of the chief priest, and removed his ear.
MAR 14:48 And responding Jesus said to them, As unto a robber do you come forth with swords and wood spears to seize me?
MAR 14:49 By day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But it is that the scriptures should be fulfilled.
MAR 14:50 And leaving him, all fled.
MAR 14:51 And one certain young man follows him, having put on a fine linen garment upon his naked body; and the young men seized him.
MAR 14:52 But leaving behind the fine linen garment, he fled naked from them.
MAR 14:53 And they took Jesus to the chief priest. And all the chief priests gather to him and the elders and the scribes.
MAR 14:54 And Peter from far off followed him, even inside into the courtyard of the chief priest. And he was sitting together with the officers, and being heated by the light.
MAR 14:55 And the chief priests and the entire sanhedrin sought testimony against Jesus to put him to death; and they did not find.
MAR 14:56 For many witnessed falsely against him, and the testimonies were not equal.
MAR 14:57 And certain ones having risen up, witnessed falsely against him, saying that,
MAR 14:58 We heard him saying that, I shall break up this temple made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made by hands.
MAR 14:59 And not even thus was their testimony equal.
MAR 14:60 And the chief priest having risen up into the midst, questioned Jesus, saying, Do you not answer one thing? what is it these are bearing witness against you?
MAR 14:61 And he kept silent, and not one thing did he answer. Again the chief priest questioned him, and says to him, Are you the Christ, the son of the blessed?
MAR 14:62 And Jesus said, I am, and you shall see the son of man sitting on the right of the power, and coming with the clouds of the heaven.
MAR 14:63 And the chief priest, having torn his inner garments, says, What yet need do we have of witnesses?
MAR 14:64 You heard the blasphemy. What does it appear to you? And they all condemned him to be liable of death.
MAR 14:65 And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say to him, Prophesy! And the officers threw slaps at him.
MAR 14:66 And Peter being in the courtyard below, there comes one of the maidservants of the chief priest.
MAR 14:67 And beholding Peter heating himself, having looked at him, she says, Even you were with Jesus the one of Nazareth.
MAR 14:68 But he denied, saying, I have not known him, nor have knowledge of what you say. And he went forth outside into the porch of the courtyard; and a rooster called out.
MAR 14:69 And the maidservant beholding him, again began to say to the ones standing by that, This one is of them.
MAR 14:70 And he again denied. And after a little time, again the ones standing by said to Peter, Truly you are of them, for even you are a Galilean, and your speech coincides.
MAR 14:71 And he began to devote to consumption and to swear by an oath that, I have not known this man of whom you speak.
MAR 14:72 And a second time a rooster called out. And Peter called to mind the saying which Jesus said to him that, Before a rooster calls out twice, you shall totally reject me three times. And giving it attention he wept.
MAR 15:1 And immediately in the morning, a council having been appointed, the chief priests with the elders and the scribes and the entire sanhedrin, having bound Jesus, carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate.
MAR 15:2 And Pilate questioned him, Are you the king of the Jews? And answering he said to him, You say it.
MAR 15:3 And the chief priests charged him much; but he answered not one thing.
MAR 15:4 And Pilate again questioned him, saying, Do you not answer one thing? See how much they bear witness against you!
MAR 15:5 But Jesus no longer answered anything, so that Pilate marveled.
MAR 15:6 And according to the holiday he loosed to them one prisoner, whomsoever they asked.
MAR 15:7 And there was the one being called Barabbas, being bound with the joint-conspirators, who with the faction committed murder.
MAR 15:8 And yelling out, the multitude began to ask him to do as continually he did to them.
MAR 15:9 And Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want that I should release to you the king of the Jews?
MAR 15:10 For he knew that through envy the chief priests delivered him up.
MAR 15:11 But the chief priests incited the multitude, that rather he should release Barabbas to them.
MAR 15:12 And Pilate, responding again said to them, What then do you want I shall do to whom you call King of the Jews?
MAR 15:13 And again they cried out, Crucify him!
MAR 15:14 And Pilate said to them, For what evil did he? But they more exceedingly cried out, Crucify him!
MAR 15:15 And Pilate, wanting to do the fit thing for the multitude, released to them Barabbas, and delivered up Jesus, having been scourged, that he should be crucified.
MAR 15:16 And the soldiers took him away inside the courtyard, which is the praetorium; and they called together all the cohort.
MAR 15:17 And they clothed him in purple, and having plaited a thorny crown they put it on him.
MAR 15:18 And they began to salute him, Hail, O king of the Jews!
MAR 15:19 And they beat him on the head with a reed, and spat on him, and setting the knees did obeisance to him.
MAR 15:20 And when they mocked him, they took the purple off him, and put on him his own garments, and led him out that they should crucify him.
MAR 15:21 And they conscripted one passing by, (a certain Simon a Cyrenian, coming from the field, the father of Alexander and Rufus,) that he should carry his cross.
MAR 15:22 And they brought him unto Golgotha, a place which is being translated, Place of a Skull.
MAR 15:23 And they gave to him myrrh mixed with wine to drink; but he did not take.
MAR 15:24 And having crucified him, they divided his garments, casting a lot over them, who should take what.
MAR 15:25 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
MAR 15:26 And there was the inscription of his accusation being inscribed, The king of the Jews.
MAR 15:27 And with him they crucified two robbers, one at his right, and one at his left.
MAR 15:28 And the scripture was fulfilled saying, And he was imputed with lawless ones.
MAR 15:29 And the ones coming near blasphemed him, shaking their heads, and saying, Ah, the one breaking up the temple, and in three days rebuilding it,
MAR 15:30 deliver yourself, and come down from the cross!
MAR 15:31 And in like manner the chief priests mocking among one another with the scribes saying, Others he delivered; himself he is not able to deliver;
MAR 15:32 the Christ, the king of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, that we should know and should believe. And the ones being crucified along with him berated him.
MAR 15:33 And having become the sixth hour, darkness took place upon the entire land until the ninth hour.
MAR 15:34 And in the ninth hour Jesus yelled out a great voice, saying, Eloi, eloi, lima. sabacthani? which is being translated, My God, my God, for why did you abandon me?
MAR 15:35 And some of the ones standing by, having heard, said, Behold, he calls Elijah.
MAR 15:36 And one having run then filled the sponge with vinegar; and having put it on also a reed, gave him to drink, saying, Allow it! We should see if Elijah comes to lower him.
MAR 15:37 And Jesus letting go with a great voice, expired.
MAR 15:38 And the veil of the temple split in two from above unto below.
MAR 15:39 And beholding, the centurion standing by opposite him, that thus having cried out he expired, said, Truly this man was son of God.
MAR 15:40 And there were also women from far off viewing; among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the one of James the less and Joses mother, and Salome;
MAR 15:41 (the ones who also when he was in Galilee followed him, and served to him;) and many others - the ones going up with him unto Jerusalem.
MAR 15:42 And already evening having become, (since it was the preparation which is before the sabbath,)
MAR 15:43 there came Joseph, the one from Arimathea, a decent counselor, who also himself was waiting for the kingdom of God, having dared entered to Pilate, and asked the body of Jesus.
MAR 15:44 And Pilate marveled that already he has died. And having called the centurion, he questioned him if he died earlier.
MAR 15:45 And having known from the centurion, he presented the body to Joseph.
MAR 15:46 And having bought fine linen, and having lowered him, he wrapped him in the fine linen, and laid him down in a tomb which was quarried from out of rock, and rolled a stone upon the door of the tomb.
MAR 15:47 And Mary Magdalene and Mary of Joses viewed where he was placed.
MAR 16:1 And the elapsing of the sabbath, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the one of James, and Salome, bought aromatics, that having come they should anoint him.
MAR 16:2 And exceedingly in the morning of day one of the sabbaths, they come unto the tomb at the rising of the sun.
MAR 16:3 And they said among themselves, Who shall roll away the stone for us from the door of the tomb?
MAR 16:4 And having looked up, they viewed that the stone was rolled away - for it was exceedingly great.
MAR 16:5 And having entered into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting down on the right, being clothed in white apparel; and they were astonished.
MAR 16:6 And he says to them, Do not be astonished! You seek Jesus the Nazarene, the one having been crucified; he was arisen, he is not here; see the place where they put him!
MAR 16:7 But go, say to his disciples and to Peter that he goes before you unto Galilee! There you shall see him, as he said to you.
MAR 16:8 And having come forth quickly, they fled from the tomb; and trembling and a change of state took hold of them; and they told no one not one thing; for they were afraid.
MAR 16:9 And having risen in the morning on the first day of the sabbath, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
MAR 16:10 That one having gone reported to the ones having been with him, who were mourning and weeping.
MAR 16:11 And those, having heard that he lives, and was seen by her, disbelieved.
MAR 16:12 And after these things with two of them walking, he was made manifest in another appearance, in their going into the field.
MAR 16:13 And those having gone forth reported to the rest - and those neither believed.
MAR 16:14 Afterwards with them reclining, he was made manifest to them to the eleven. And he berated their unbelief and hardness of heart, that to the ones seeing him being arisen they did not believe.
MAR 16:15 And he said to them, Having gone into the world all together, proclaim the good news to all in the creation!
MAR 16:16 The one believing and being immersed shall be delivered; but the one disbelieving shall be condemned.
MAR 16:17 And signs to these believing shall follow closely - in my name they shall cast out demons; they shall speak new languages;
MAR 16:18 they shall take away serpents; and if anything deadly they shall drink, in no way shall it hurt them; they shall place hands upon ill ones, and they shall suffice well.
MAR 16:19 So then the Lord, after speaking with them, was taken up into the heaven, and sat at the right of God.
MAR 16:20 And those having gone forth proclaimed everywhere of the Lord, and were working together firming the word by the signs following after. Amen.
LUK 1:1 Seeing that many attempted to arrange a narrative concerning the things having a full assurance among us,
LUK 1:2 as was delivered up to us by the ones from the beginning having been eyewitnesses and assistants of the word;
LUK 1:3 it seemed good that I also, having followed closely from the beginning in all things exactly, write to you in order, most excellent Theophilus,
LUK 1:4 that you should realize concerning the certainty of which matters you were instructed.
LUK 1:5 It came to pass in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, with a certain priest, by name Zacharias, of the daily rotations of Abia; and his wife of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
LUK 1:6 And they were both just before God, going in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless.
LUK 1:7 And there was not a child to them, in so far as Elizabeth was sterile, and both were advancing in their days.
LUK 1:8 And it came to pass in his officiating as priest in the order of his daily rotation before God,
LUK 1:9 according to the custom of the priesthood, he obtained by lot to burn incense when entering into the temple of the Lord.
LUK 1:10 And all the multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of the incense.
LUK 1:11 And appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing at the right of the altar of the incense.
LUK 1:12 And Zacharias was disturbed seeing him, and fear fell upon him.
LUK 1:13 And the angel said to him, Fear not, Zacharias! for your supplication was heard; and your wife Elizabeth shall bear a son to you, and you shall call his name John.
LUK 1:14 And he will be a joy to you and exultation; and many shall rejoice at his nativity.
LUK 1:15 For he will be great before the Lord, and wine and liquor in no way shall he drink; and he shall be filled of holy spirit, still from his mother's belly.
LUK 1:16 And he will turn many of the sons of Israel unto the Lord their God.
LUK 1:17 And he shall go forth before him in spirit and power of Elijah, to turn hearts of fathers unto children, and ones resisting persuasion to the intelligence of the just ones; to prepare to the Lord a people being carefully prepared.
LUK 1:18 And Zacharias said to the angel, By what thing shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in her days.
LUK 1:19 And answering the angel said to him, I am Gabriel, the one standing in the presence of God; and I was sent to speak to you, and to announce good news to you - these things.
LUK 1:20 And behold, you will be kept silent, and not be able to speak until of which day these things take place, because you believed not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their time.
LUK 1:21 And the people were expecting Zacharias, and wondered at his passing time in the temple.
LUK 1:22 And having come forth, he was not able to speak to them. And they realized that he has seen an apparition in the temple. And he was signifying with his head to them, and he remained mute.
LUK 1:23 And it came to pass, as the days were filled of his ministration, he went forth unto his house.
LUK 1:24 And after these days Elizabeth his wife conceived, and she covered round about and concealed herself five months, saying that,
LUK 1:25 Thus the Lord has done to me in the days in which he looked upon to remove my scorn among men.
LUK 1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God unto a city of Galilee, with the name Nazareth,
LUK 1:27 to a virgin being espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, from the house of David; and the name of the virgin was Mary.
LUK 1:28 And the angel entering to her, said, Hail, one being shown favor! The Lord is with you, O you being blessed among women.
LUK 1:29 And she seeing, was disturbed over his word, and reasoned what this greeting may be.
LUK 1:30 And the angel said to her, Fear not, Mary! For you found favor with God.
LUK 1:31 And behold, you shall conceive in the womb, and shall give birth to a son, and shall call his name Jesus.
LUK 1:32 This one will be great, and will be called son of highest; and the Lord God shall give to him the throne of David his father.
LUK 1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob into the eons; and of his kingdom there shall not be an end.
LUK 1:34 And Mary said to the angel, How will this be since I know not a husbandman.?
LUK 1:35 And answering the angel said to her, Holy spirit shall come upon you, and power of the highest shall overshadow you; therefore also the one being born of you holy shall be called Son of God.
LUK 1:36 And behold, Elizabeth your relative, even she is having conceived a son in her old age; and this one being called sterile is in her sixth month.
LUK 1:37 For not shall any thing be impossible with God.
LUK 1:38 And Mary said, Behold, the maidservant of the Lord; may it be to me according to your word. And the angel went forth from her.
LUK 1:39 And Mary rising up in these days went into the mountainous area with haste, into a city of Judah.
LUK 1:40 And she entered into the house of Zacharias, and greeted Elizabeth.
LUK 1:41 And it came to pass as Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the babe leaped in her belly; and Elizabeth was filled of holy spirit.
LUK 1:42 And she sounded out loud with a great voice, and said, Being blessed among women, and being blessed is the fruit of your belly.
LUK 1:43 And from where is this to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
LUK 1:44 For behold, as the sound of your greeting took place in my ears, the babe leaped in exultation in my belly.
LUK 1:45 And blessed is her the one believing, for there will be a perfection to the things spoken to her by the Lord.
LUK 1:46 And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord,
LUK 1:47 and my spirit exults over God my deliverer.
LUK 1:48 For he looked upon the low estate of his maidservant. For behold, from the present all generations shall declare me blessed.
LUK 1:49 For the mighty one did magnificent to me; and holy is his name.
LUK 1:50 And his mercy is for generations of generations to the ones fearing him.
LUK 1:51 He executed might with his arm; he dispersed proud ones - the thought of their hearts.
LUK 1:52 He demolished mighty ones from thrones, and raised up high humble ones.
LUK 1:53 He filled up ones being hungry of good things, and ones being rich he sent out empty.
LUK 1:54 He took hold of Israel his servant, for mercy to be remembered,
LUK 1:55 (as he said to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed,) into the eon.
LUK 1:56 And Mary abided with her about three months, and returned unto her house.
LUK 1:57 And Elizabeth fulfilled the time of her giving birth; and bore a son.
LUK 1:58 And the ones adjacent heard, and her relatives, that the Lord magnified his mercy with her; and they rejoiced along with her.
LUK 1:59 And it came to pass, in the eighth day they came to circumcise the child; and they called it after the name of his father, Zacharias.
LUK 1:60 And answering, his mother said, No; but he shall be called John.
LUK 1:61 And they said to her that, No one is among your kin who is called by this name.
LUK 1:62 And they beckoned to his father, for the name which he might want to call him.
LUK 1:63 And asking for a writing tablet, he wrote, saying, John is his name. And they all marveled.
LUK 1:64 And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue, and he spoke blessing God.
LUK 1:65 And fear came upon all the ones living about them. And in the entire mountainous area of Judea all these matters were discussed.
LUK 1:66 And all the ones having heard placed it in their heart, saying, What then will this child be? And the hand of the Lord was with him.
LUK 1:67 And Zacharias his father was filled of holy spirit, and prophesied, saying,
LUK 1:68 Blessed is the Lord God of Israel; for he visited and made a ransoming to his people,
LUK 1:69 and raised a horn of deliverance to us by the house of David his servant;
LUK 1:70 as he spoke by the mouth of the holy ones from the eon, of his prophets -
LUK 1:71 deliverance from our enemies, and from out of the hand of all the ones detesting us;
LUK 1:72 to do mercy with our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant;
LUK 1:73 the oath which he swore to Abraham our father, to grant to us;
LUK 1:74 being rescued from out of the hand of our enemies to serve him fearlessly,
LUK 1:75 in sacredness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life.
LUK 1:76 And you, child, shall be called prophet of highest; for you shall go forth before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;
LUK 1:77 to give knowledge of deliverance to his people in a release of their sins;
LUK 1:78 through feelings of compassion of mercy of our God; in which the rising of the height visited us,
LUK 1:79 to shine unto the ones in darkness and sitting in the shadow of death, to straighten out our feet unto the way of peace.
LUK 1:80 And the child grew, and was fortified in spirit, and was in the wildernesses until the day of his appointment with Israel.
LUK 2:1 And it came to pass in those days, went forth a decree by Caesar Augustus, to register all the habitable world.
LUK 2:2 (This census first took place of Cyrenius governing Syria.)
LUK 2:3 And all went forth to register, each unto his own city.
LUK 2:4 And Joseph also ascended from Galilee, from out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (on account of his being from the house and family of David;)
LUK 2:5 to be registered with Mary being espoused to him as wife, being pregnant.
LUK 2:6 And it came to pass in their being there, the days were fulfilled of her to give birth.
LUK 2:7 And she gave birth to her son, the first-born. And she swaddled him, and laid him in the stable; for there was not a place for them in the lodging.
LUK 2:8 And shepherds were in the same place living outdoors, and keeping watches at night over their flock.
LUK 2:9 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by them, and glory of the Lord shone about them; and they feared a great fear.
LUK 2:10 And the angel said to them, Fear not! For behold, I announce to you good news - great joy, which shall be to all people.
LUK 2:11 For was born to you today a deliverer who is Christ the Lord, in the city of David.
LUK 2:12 And this is the sign to you - you shall find the babe being swaddled, lying in a stable.
LUK 2:13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly military praising God, and saying,
LUK 2:14 Glory in the highest to God, and upon earth peace among men with benevolence.
LUK 2:15 And it came to pass, as the angels went forth from them into the heaven, that the men, the shepherds, said to one another, We should go indeed unto Bethlehem, and behold this thing taking place, which the Lord made known to us.
LUK 2:16 And they came having hastened, and discovered both Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in the stable.
LUK 2:17 And beholding, they made known concerning the thing being spoken to them concerning this child.
LUK 2:18 And all the ones having heard wondered concerning the things being spoken by the shepherds to them.
LUK 2:19 But Mary preserved all these things, uniting them in her heart.
LUK 2:20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all which they heard and beheld, as it was told to them.
LUK 2:21 And when eight days were fulfilled to circumcise the child, that his name was called Jesus, the name being called by the angel before his being conceived in the belly.
LUK 2:22 And when the days were fulfilled of her cleansing, according to the law of Moses, they led him unto Jerusalem, to render to the Lord,
LUK 2:23 (as it has been written in the law of the Lord that, Every male opening wide the womb shall be called holy to the Lord; )
LUK 2:24 and to give a sacrifice according to the thing being said in the law of the Lord - a pair of turtle-doves, or two young pigeons.
LUK 2:25 And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; and this man was just and reverent, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And holy spirit was upon him.
LUK 2:26 And there was to him a receiving of a divine message by the holy spirit to not see death before he should behold the Christ of the Lord.
LUK 2:27 And he came, in the spirit, into the temple. And in the bringing the child Jesus by the parents, for them to do according to the thing accustomed by the law for him,
LUK 2:28 that he received it into his embrace, and blessed God, and said,
LUK 2:29 Now loosen your servant, O master, according to your word, in peace.
LUK 2:30 For my eyes saw your deliverance,
LUK 2:31 which you prepared before the face of all the peoples;
LUK 2:32 a light for an uncovering of nations, and glory of your people Israel.
LUK 2:33 And Joseph - father and his mother were. marveling over the things being spoken concerning him.
LUK 2:34 And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this one is situated for a downfall and a rising upresurrection. of many in Israel; and for a sign being disputed;
LUK 2:35 ( and even you - a broadsword shall go through your soul, ) so that the thoughts of many hearts should be uncovered.
LUK 2:36 And there was Anna a prophetess, daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in many days, having lived seven years with a husband from her virginity;
LUK 2:37 and she was a widow about eighty-four years, who did not leave from the temple; but with fastings and supplications serving night and day.
LUK 2:38 And she, standing by in the same hour, confessed to the Lord, and spoke concerning him to all the ones waiting for a ransoming in Jerusalem.
LUK 2:39 And as they finished all together the things according to the law of the Lord, they returned unto Galilee, unto their own city Nazareth.
LUK 2:40 And the child grew, and was fortified in spirit, being filled with wisdom; and favor of God was upon it.
LUK 2:41 And his parents went each year unto Jerusalem to the holiday of the passover.
LUK 2:42 And when he was twelve years old, of their ascending unto Jerusalem according to the custom of the holiday,
LUK 2:43 and having finished the days, in their returning, the child Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother did not know.
LUK 2:44 But thinking him to be in the group, they came a day's journey; and they searched him out among the relatives and among the acquaintances.
LUK 2:45 And not finding him, they returned unto Jerusalem, seeking him.
LUK 2:46 And it came to pass after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them, and questioning them.
LUK 2:47 And all the ones hearing him were amazed by the understanding and his answers.
LUK 2:48 And seeing him, they were overwhelmed. And his mother said to him, Child, why did you do so to us? behold, your father and I were grieving seeking you.
LUK 2:49 And he said to them, Why is it that you seek me? do you not know that it is necessary for me to be among the things of my father?
LUK 2:50 And they did not perceive the saying which he spoke to them.
LUK 2:51 And he went down with them, and came into Nazareth, and was being submitted to them. And his mother kept carefully all these sayings in her heart.
LUK 2:52 And Jesus progressed in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.
LUK 3:1 And in the fifteenth year of the governing of Tiberius Caesar, and the governing of Pontius Pilate of the Jews, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and Philip his brother being tetrarch of Ituraea and Trachonitis the region, and Lysanias being tetrarch of Abilene,
LUK 3:2 with chief priests Annas and Caiaphas, came the word of God unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.
LUK 3:3 And he went into all the place round about the Jordan, proclaiming an immersion of repentance for a release of sins;
LUK 3:4 as it has been written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, saying, A voice yelling in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord! Make straight his roads!
LUK 3:5 Every ravine shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be lowered; and the crooked will be for straight, and the rough for smooth ways;
LUK 3:6 and all flesh shall see the deliverance of God.
LUK 3:7 He said then to the multitudes coming forth to be immersed by him, Offspring of vipers, who indicated to you to flee from the wrath about to be?
LUK 3:8 Do then fruits worthy of repentance! For you should not begin to say among yourselves, We have father Abraham; for I say to you that, God is able from out of these stones to raise children to Abraham.
LUK 3:9 But already even the axe is situated at the root of the trees. Every tree then not producing good fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.
LUK 3:10 And the multitudes asked him, saying, What then shall we do?
LUK 3:11 And answering he says to them, The one having two inner garments, share with the one not having! And the one having foods, in like manner do!
LUK 3:12 And there came also tax collectors to be immersed, and they said to him, Teacher, what shall we do?
LUK 3:13 And he said to them, exact nothing more beyond that being set in order to you!
LUK 3:14 And soldiers asked him also, saying, And we, what shall we do? And he said to them, No one should you shake up nor extort, and let your rations be sufficient!
LUK 3:15 And the people were expecting, and all were reasoning in their hearts concerning John, if perhaps he may be the Christ.
LUK 3:16 John answered all together, saying, I indeed immerse you in water; but comes the one stronger than me, of whom I am not fit to untie the strap of his sandals; he will immerse you in holy spirit and in fire;
LUK 3:17 of whom the winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing-floor, and will gather the grain into his storehouse; and the straw he will incinerate with inextinguishable fire.
LUK 3:18 And indeed then many other things comforting he announced good news to the people.
LUK 3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him concerning Herodias the wife of his brother Philip, and concerning all the evils which Herod did,
LUK 3:20 added also this unto all - that he imprisoned John in the prison.
LUK 3:21 And it came to pass in the immersing all the people, and Jesus being immersed and praying, the heaven was opened,
LUK 3:22 and the holy spirit came down bodily in a form as a dove upon him, and a voice from out of heaven came, saying, You are my son the beloved; in you I take pleasure.
LUK 3:23 And Jesus himself was about thirty years old in beginning, being as was thought the son of Joseph, the son of Heli,
LUK 3:24 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi the son of Melchi, the son of Janna, the son of Joseph,
LUK 3:25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Naum, the son of Esli, the son of Nagge,
LUK 3:26 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semei, the son of Joseph, the son of Juda,
LUK 3:27 the son of Joanna, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, the son of Neri,
LUK 3:28 the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er,
LUK 3:29 the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
LUK 3:30 the son of Simeon, the son of Juda, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim,
LUK 3:31 the son of Melea, the son of Menan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
LUK 3:32 the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Naasson,
LUK 3:33 the son of Aminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Esrom, the son of Phares, the son of Juda,
LUK 3:34 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Thara, the son of Nachor,
LUK 3:35 the son of Saruch, the son of Ragau, the son of Phalec, the son of Heber, the son of Sala,
LUK 3:36 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
LUK 3:37 the son of Mathusala, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Maleleel, the son of Cainan,
LUK 3:38 the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
LUK 4:1 And Jesus full of holy spirit returned from the Jordan, and was led by the spirit into the wilderness,
LUK 4:2 forty days being tested by the devil. And he did not eat anything during those days. And of their being completed, afterwards he hungered.
LUK 4:3 And the devil said to him, If you are Son of God, tell to this stone that it become bread!
LUK 4:4 And Jesus answered to him, saying, It has been written that, Not by bread alone shall man live, but by every word of God.
LUK 4:5 And the devil led him into a high mountain, to show to him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
LUK 4:6 And the devil said to him, I shall give to you this authority all together, and their glory; for it has been delivered to me, and to whom ever I should want I give it.
LUK 4:7 You then, if you should do obeisance before me, all will be yours.
LUK 4:8 And answering to him, Jesus said, Go behind me Satan! for it has been written, You shall do obeisance to the Lord your God, and to him alone shall you serve.
LUK 4:9 And he led him unto Jerusalem, and stood him upon the wing of the temple, and said to him, If you are the son of God, throw yourself from here to below!
LUK 4:10 For it has been written that, To his angels he shall give charge concerning you, to guard you;
LUK 4:11 and upon hands they shall lift you, lest at any time your foot should stumble against a stone.
LUK 4:12 And answering Jesus said to him that, It has been said, Do not put to test the Lord your God!
LUK 4:13 And the devil having completed all testing, he left from him until an occasion.
LUK 4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the spirit into Galilee. And a reputation went forth unto the entire place round about concerning him.
LUK 4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, being extolled by all.
LUK 4:16 And he came unto Nazareth, of which he was reared. And he entered, (according to the thing accustomed for him in the day of the sabbaths,) into the synagogue, and rose up to read.
LUK 4:17 And there was given over to him a scroll of Isaiah the prophet. And unrolling the scroll, he found the place of which it was written,
LUK 4:18 Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because of which he anointed me to announce good news to the poor; he has sent me to heal the ones being broken in heart, to proclaim to captives a release, and to blind a recovery of sight, to send a release to the ones being devastated,
LUK 4:19 to proclaim the accepted year of the Lord.
LUK 4:20 And having rolled up the scroll, having given it back to the assistant, he sat down. And all eyes in the synagogue were gazing upon him.
LUK 4:21 And he began to say to them that, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your ears.
LUK 4:22 And all bore witness to him, and marveled over the words of favor going forth from out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this the son of Joseph?
LUK 4:23 And he said to them, Assuredly you shall say to me this parable, Physician, attend to yourself! As many things as we heard taking place in Capernaum, do also here in your fatherland!
LUK 4:24 And he said, Amen I say to you that, Not one prophet is accepted in his fatherland.
LUK 4:25 And in truth I say to you, There were many widows in the days of Elijah in Israel, when the heaven was locked for three years and six months, as a great famine took place upon all the land;
LUK 4:26 and to not one of them was Elijah sent, except unto Sarepta of Sidon, to a widow woman.
LUK 4:27 And there were many lepers in the time of Elisha the prophet in Israel; and not one of them was cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian.
LUK 4:28 And they were all filled with rage in the synagogue, hearing these things.
LUK 4:29 And having risen up, they cast him outside the city, and led him unto a brow of the mountain upon which their city had been built, so as to fling him downwards.
LUK 4:30 But he, going through the midst of them, went away.
LUK 4:31 And he went down unto Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and was teaching them on the sabbaths.
LUK 4:32 And they were overwhelmed at his teaching; for his word was with authority.
LUK 4:33 And in the synagogue was a man having a spirit of an unclean demon, and he shouted aloud with a great voice,
LUK 4:34 saying, Alas, what is it to us and to you, Jesus - Nazarene? Are you come to destroy us? I know you, who you are; the holy one of God.
LUK 4:35 And Jesus reproached him, saying, Be halted, and come forth from him! And the demon having tossed him into the midst, came forth from him, in nothing having hurt him.
LUK 4:36 And there became a stupefaction upon all, and they conversed together with one another, saying, What word is this that with authority and power he gives orders to the unclean spirits, and they come forth?
LUK 4:37 And the sound concerning him went forth unto every place round about.
LUK 4:38 And rising up from out of the synagogue, he entered into the house of Simon. And the mother-in-law of Simon was constrained by a great fever; and they asked him concerning her.
LUK 4:39 And standing above her, he reproached the fever, and it left her. And immediately rising up she served to them.
LUK 4:40 And at the going down of the sun, all as many as had ones being weak by various diseases led them to him; and having placed the hands upon each one of them, he cured them.
LUK 4:41 And there came forth also demons from many, crying out and saying that, You are the Christ the son of God. And reproaching he did not allow them to speak; for they knew him to be the Christ.
LUK 4:42 And becoming day, having come forth, he went into a desolate place. And the multitudes sought him, and came unto him, and constrained him to not go from them.
LUK 4:43 And he said to them that, Also to the other cities it is necessary for me to announce good news - the kingdom of God; for in this I have been sent.
LUK 4:44 And he was proclaiming in the synagogues of Galilee.
LUK 5:1 And it came to pass in the time the multitude pressed upon him to hear the word of God, and he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret,
LUK 5:2 and saw two boats standing by the lake. And the fishermen having disembarked from them were washing the nets.
LUK 5:3 And having stepped into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to turn back a little from the land. And having sat down he taught the multitudes from out of the boat.
LUK 5:4 And as he ceased speaking, he said to Simon, Turn back into the depth, and let down your nets for a catch!
LUK 5:5 And responding Simon said to him, Master, through the entire night having tired, we took nothing; but on your word I will let down the net.
LUK 5:6 And this having done, they closed up a multitude of great fishes; and their net was being torn.
LUK 5:7 And they nodded to their partners in the other boat, to come seize them. And they came, and filled both the boats, so as to submerge them.
LUK 5:8 And beholding, Simon Peter fell at the knees of Jesus, saying, Go forth from me; for I am a man a sinner, O Lord.
LUK 5:9 For a stupefaction compassed him, and all the ones with him, over the catch of the fishes which they seized;
LUK 5:10 and likewise also James and John, the sons of Zebedee who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Fear not; from now on you will be taking alive men.
LUK 5:11 And leading the boats unto the land, leaving all, they followed him.
LUK 5:12 And it came to pass, in his being in one of the cities, and behold a man full of leprosy. And seeing Jesus, falling upon his face, he beseeched him, saying, O Lord, if you should want, you are able to cleanse me.
LUK 5:13 And having stretched out the hand, he touched him, saying, I want; be cleansed! And immediately the leprosy went forth from him.
LUK 5:14 And he exhorted him to tell no one. But having gone forth, show yourself to the priest, and offer concerning your cleansing, as Moses assigned for a testimony to them!
LUK 5:15 And the word went through more concerning him. And many multitudes gathered together to hear, and to be cured by him of their sicknesses.
LUK 5:16 And he was retreating in the wildernesses, and praying.
LUK 5:17 And it came to pass on one of the days, and he was teaching, and there were Pharisees sitting down and teachers of the law, who were coming from out of every town of Galilee, and Judea, and Jerusalem. And power of the Lord was there for them to be healed.
LUK 5:18 And behold, men were bringing upon a bed a man who was disabled. And they sought to carry him in, and to put him in front of him.
LUK 5:19 And not having found by what means they should carry him in through the multitude, having ascending upon the roof, they lowered him through the ceramic tiles with the cot into the midst before Jesus.
LUK 5:20 And beholding their belief, he said to him, O man, your sins are forgiven to you.
LUK 5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemy? Who is able to forgive sins, except God alone?
LUK 5:22 And Jesus recognizing their thoughts, responding he said to them, What do you reason in your hearts?
LUK 5:23 What is easier to say? Your sins are forgiven to you; or to say, Arise and walk!
LUK 5:24 But that you should know that the son of man has authority upon the earth to forgive sins, he said to the disabled man, To you I say, Arise, and take your cot - go unto your house!
LUK 5:25 And immediately having risen before them, and having lifted that upon which he reclined, he went forth unto his house glorifying God.
LUK 5:26 And astonishment took all, and they glorified God, and were filled of fear, saying that, We beheld an incredible thing today.
LUK 5:27 And after these things he went forth, and saw a tax collector, by name Levi, sitting down at the tax collector's station. And he said to him, Follow me!
LUK 5:28 And leaving behind all, having risen, he followed him.
LUK 5:29 And Levi made a great banquet for him in his house. And there was a great multitude of tax collectors, and others who were with them reclining.
LUK 5:30 And their scribes and the Pharisees grumbled against his disciples, saying, Why with the tax collectors and sinners does he eat and drink?
LUK 5:31 And answering Jesus said to them, No need do the ones being in health have of a physician; but the ones having illnesses.
LUK 5:32 I have not come to call just ones, but sinners unto repentance.
LUK 5:33 And they said to him, Why do the disciples of John fast frequently, and make supplications, and in like manner the ones of the Pharisees; but the ones to you eat and drink?
LUK 5:34 And he said to them, Are you able to make the sons of the bridal chamber fast when the groom is with them?
LUK 5:35 But there will come days, that whenever the groom departs from them, then they shall fast in those days.
LUK 5:36 And he spoke also a parable to them that, No one puts a piece of cloth of a new coat upon an old cloak; otherwise, also the new splits, and the old cloak does not join in harmony with the piece of the new.
LUK 5:37 And no one casts new wine into old leather wine bags; otherwise, the new wine shall tear the leather wine bags, and it will be poured out, and the leather wine bags will be destroyed.
LUK 5:38 But new wine is put into new leather wine bags; and both are preserved together.
LUK 5:39 And no one having drunk old wine immediately wants new; for he says, The old is better.
LUK 6:1 And it came to pass on sabbath following the great one, he traveled through the wheat fields; and his disciples were plucking the ears of wheat, and were eating them by rubbing in pieces with their hands.
LUK 6:2 And some of the Pharisees said to them, Why do you do what is not allowed to do on the sabbaths?
LUK 6:3 And answering to them Jesus said, Neither this did you read, what David did, when he hungered, he and the ones being with him?
LUK 6:4 How he entered into the house of God, and the breads of the place setting he took, and he ate, and gave also to the ones with him; which is not allowed to be eaten except the priests only.
LUK 6:5 And he said to them that, The son of man is Lord even of the sabbath.
LUK 6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, for him to enter into the synagogue and to teach. And there was there a man, and his right hand was withered.
LUK 6:7 And the scribes and the Pharisees closely watched him, to see if he will cure him on the sabbath; that they should find a charge against him.
LUK 6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man having the withered hand, Arise, and stand in the midst! And he having risen up stood.
LUK 6:9 Then Jesus said to them, I will ask you, What is allowed to the sabbaths - to do good, or to do evil? to preserve a soul, or to destroy?
LUK 6:10 And having looked round about on all of them, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he did thus. And his hand was restored in health as the other.
LUK 6:11 But they were filled with thoughtlessness; and they discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
LUK 6:12 And it came to pass in those days, he went forth into the mountain to pray, and was spending the night in the prayer of God.
LUK 6:13 And when it became day, he called out to his disciples; and choosing from them twelve, whom also he named apostles were -
LUK 6:14 Simon, whom also he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
LUK 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the one being called Zealot,
LUK 6:16 and Judas of James, and Judas Iscariot, who also became the betrayer.
LUK 6:17 And going down with them, he stopped at a flat place, and a multitude of his disciples, and a great multitude of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and of the coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
LUK 6:18 even the ones being mobbed by unclean spirits - and they were being cured.
LUK 6:19 And all the multitude sought to touch him; for power by him came forth, and healed all.
LUK 6:20 And he lifting up his eyes unto his disciples, said, Blessed are the poor; for yours is the kingdom of God.
LUK 6:21 Blessed are the ones hungering now; for you shall be filled. Blessed are the ones weeping now; for you shall laugh.
LUK 6:22 Blessed are you, whenever men should detest you, and whenever they should separate you, and should berate you, and should cast out your name as wicked, because of the son of man.
LUK 6:23 Rejoice in that day, and leap! For behold, your wage is great in the heaven - in the heavens.. For according to these things their fathers did to the prophets.
LUK 6:24 Furthermore, woe to you rich ones; for you receive your comfort.
LUK 6:25 Woe to you being filled up; for you shall hunger. Woe to you laughing now; for you shall mourn and weep.
LUK 6:26 Woe whenever the men should speak well of you; for according to these things their fathers did to the false prophets.
LUK 6:27 But to you I say, to the ones hearing, Love your enemies! Do well to the ones detesting you!
LUK 6:28 Bless the ones cursing you! And pray for the ones threatening you!
LUK 6:29 To the one beating you upon the jaw, furnish also the other! And from the one taking away your cloak, also the inner garment you should not restrain.
LUK 6:30 And to every one asking you, give! And from the one taking away your things, do not exact payment!
LUK 6:31 And as you want that men should do to you, you also do to them in like manner!
LUK 6:32 And if you love the ones loving you, what favor is it to you? for even the sinners love the ones loving them.
LUK 6:33 And if you should do good for the ones doing you good, what favor is it to you? for even the sinners do the same.
LUK 6:34 And if you should lend from whom you hope to recover, what favor is it to you? for even sinners lend to sinners, that they should recover what is equal.
LUK 6:35 Furthermore, love your enemies, and do good, and lend, despairing for nothing! And your wage will be great, and you will be sons of the highest. For he is gracious upon the ungracious and wicked.
LUK 6:36 You become then pitying, as also your father is pitying!
LUK 6:37 And judge not, and in no way should you be judged! Condemn not, and in no way should you be condemned! Dismiss, and you will be dismissed!
LUK 6:38 Give, and it shall be given to you! In good measure, being compressed and shaken and overrunning, shall they give unto your bosom. For to the same measure in which you measure it will be measured back to you.
LUK 6:39 And he spoke a parable to them, Is in anything a blind one able to guide another blind one? Shall not both fall into a cistern?
LUK 6:40 A disciple is not above his teacher; but by fashion every one will be as his teacher.
LUK 6:41 But why do you see the speck in the eye of your brother, but the beam in your own eye you do not mind?
LUK 6:42 Or how are you able to say to your brother, O brother, allow me to cast out the speck in your eye, and yourself are not seeing the beam in your eye? Hypocrite, cast out first the beam from your eye! and then you shall see clearly to cast out the speck in the eye of your brother.
LUK 6:43 For there is not a good tree producing rotten fruit; nor a rotten tree producing good fruit.
LUK 6:44 For each tree from out of its own fruit is known. For not from thorn-bushes do they collect figs, nor from a bush do they gather the vintage grape.
LUK 6:45 The good man from out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth the good thing; and the wicked man from out of the wicked treasure of his heart brings forth the bad; for from the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
LUK 6:46 And why do you call me, O Lord, O Lord, and do not do what I say?
LUK 6:47 Every one coming to me, and hearing my words, and doing them, I will show plainly to you what he is likened.
LUK 6:48 He is likened to a man building a house, who dug, and deepened, and set a foundation upon the rock. And an inundation having become, the river beat against that house, and it was not strong enough to shake it; for it was founded upon the rock.
LUK 6:49 And the one hearing, and not doing, is likened to a man having built a house upon the ground without a foundation; which the river beat against, and immediately it fell; and the breakup of that house became great.
LUK 7:1 And when he fulfilled all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
LUK 7:2 And a certain servant of a centurion having an illness, about to come to an end, who was of value to him,
LUK 7:3 and having heard concerning Jesus, sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him that having come he should preserve his servant.
LUK 7:4 And the ones having come to Jesus appealed to him diligently, saying that, The one to whom he shall grant this is worthy;
LUK 7:5 for he loves our nation, and he built the synagogue for us.
LUK 7:6 And Jesus went with them. But already he not being far at a distance from the house, the centurion sent forth friends to him, saying to him, O Lord, be not inconvenienced! For I am not fit that you should enter under my roof.
LUK 7:7 Therefore not even myself I deem worthy to come to you; but say the word, and my servant shall be healed!
LUK 7:8 For also I am a man ordering under authority, having under myself soldiers. And I say to this one, Go! and he goes; and to another, Come! and he comes; and to my servant, Do this! and he does.
LUK 7:9 And hearing these things Jesus, marveled at him, and turning to the multitude following him said, I say to you, not even in Israel have I found so great a belief.
LUK 7:10 And returning the ones having been sent forth unto the house, found the weakened servant being in health.
LUK 7:11 And it came to pass in the next day, he went into a city being called Nain; and going with him were a fit amount of his disciples, and a great multitude.
LUK 7:12 And as he approached to the gate of the city, and behold, one having died was conveyed - a son, an only child of his mother, and she was a widow. And a multitude of the city, a fit amount was with her.
LUK 7:13 And beholding her, the Lord was moved with compassion over her, and said to her, Weep not!
LUK 7:14 And coming forward he touched the coffin. And the ones bearing it stopped. And he said, O young man, to you I say, Arise!
LUK 7:15 And the dead one sat erect and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.
LUK 7:16 And fear took hold of all. And they glorified God, saying that, A great prophet has been risen up among us; and that, God visited his people.
LUK 7:17 And this word went forth in all of Judea concerning him, and in all the place round about.
LUK 7:18 And his disciples reported to John concerning all these things.
LUK 7:19 And calling on a certain two of his disciples John sent them forth to Jesus, saying, Are you the coming one? or another should we expect?
LUK 7:20 And having come to him, the men said, John the baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the coming one? or another should we expect?
LUK 7:21 And in the same hour he cured many from diseases, and scourges, and of evil spirits; and to many blind he granted to see.
LUK 7:22 And answering Jesus said to them, Having gone, report to John what you saw and heard! That blind gained sight, lame walk, lepers are cleansed, deaf-mutes hear, dead are raised, poor are being announced good news.
LUK 7:23 And blessed is who ever should not be stumbled in me.
LUK 7:24 And the messengers of John having gone forth, he began to speak to the multitudes concerning John, What have you come forth into the wilderness to view? A reed being shaken by the wind?
LUK 7:25 But what have you come forth to behold? A man being clothed in soft garments? Behold, the ones in noble clothes and existing in luxury are in the palaces.
LUK 7:26 But what have you come forth to behold? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and more extra a prophet.
LUK 7:27 This is he concerning of whom it has been written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who shall carefully prepare your way before you.
LUK 7:28 For I say to you, A greater born among women than the prophet John the baptist, no one is. But the lesser in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
LUK 7:29 And all the people having heard, and the tax collectors, justified God, having been immersed in the immersion of John.
LUK 7:30 But the Pharisees and the legal experts disregarded for themselves the counsel of God,, not having been immersed by him.
LUK 7:31 What then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they likened?
LUK 7:32 They are likened to children in the market sitting down, and calling out to one another, and they say, We piped to you, and you danced not; we lamented to you, and you wept not.
LUK 7:33 For John the baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and you say, He has a demon.
LUK 7:34 The son of man has come eating and drinking; and you say, Behold, a man, a glutton, and a winebibber, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.
LUK 7:35 And wisdom was justified by all her children.
LUK 7:36 And a certain one of the Pharisees asked him that he should eat with him. And entering into the house of the Pharisee, he reclined.
LUK 7:37 And behold, a woman in the city, who was a sinner, realizing that he reclined in the house of the Pharisee, carried an alabaster jar of perfumed liquid.
LUK 7:38 And she stationed herself by his feet behind weeping, and began to rain his feet with tears, and with the hair of her head she wiped clean, and kissed his feet, and anointed with the perfumed liquid.
LUK 7:39 And beholding, the Pharisee having invited him, said to himself, saying, If this one was a prophet, he would have known who and what kind of woman she is who touches him; that she is a sinner.
LUK 7:40 And responding Jesus said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he says, Teacher, speak!
LUK 7:41 There were two debtors to a certain money-lender; the one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
LUK 7:42 And they not having anything to give back, both he granted pardon. Which then of them, tell, loves him more?
LUK 7:43 And answering, Simon said, I undertake that to whom the more he granted pardon. And he said to him, Rightly you judged.
LUK 7:44 And having turned to the woman, he said to Simon, You see this woman? I entered into your house - you gave not water for my feet; but she rained tears for my feet, and with the hair of her head wiped clean.
LUK 7:45 You did not give to me a kiss; but this woman from which time I entered, stopped not kissing my feet.
LUK 7:46 You anointed not my head with oil; but she with perfumed liquid anointed my feet.
LUK 7:47 Of which favor, I say to you, her many sins have been forgiven; for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, loves little.
LUK 7:48 And he said to her, The sins of you have been forgiven.
LUK 7:49 And the ones reclining together with him began to say among themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins?
LUK 7:50 And he said to the woman, the belief of yours has delivered you; go in peace!
LUK 8:1 And it came to pass in order, and he traveled through by city and town, proclaiming and announcing good news - the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him,
LUK 8:2 and certain women, who were ones having been cured from evil spirits and weaknesses - Mary the one being called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had come forth,
LUK 8:3 and Joanna wife of Chuza a caretaker of Herod, and Susanna, and many others, who served to him from their subsistence.
LUK 8:4 And a great multitude being together, and of the ones by city coming to him, he spoke by parable.
LUK 8:5 There went forth the one sowing to sow his own seed. And in his sowing, some fell by the way; and it was trampled, and the birds of the heaven devoured it.
LUK 8:6 And other fell upon the rock. And having germinated it withered, on account of the not having moisture.
LUK 8:7 And other fell in the midst of the thorn-bushes; and growing together with the thorn-bushes they choked it.
LUK 8:8 And other fell upon the good earth, and having germinated, produced fruit a hundred fold. These things saying, he spoke out loud, The one having ears to hear, let him hear!
LUK 8:9 And his disciples asked him, saying, What may this parable be?
LUK 8:10 And he said, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to the rest in parables; that seeing they should not see, and hearing they should not perceive.
LUK 8:11 And this is the parable. The seed is the word of God.
LUK 8:12 And the ones by the way are the ones hearing - then comes the devil, and takes the word from their heart, lest having believed they should be delivered.
LUK 8:13 And the ones upon the rock - the ones whenever they hear, with joy receive the word; and these have not a root, who for a time believe, and in time of test they leave.
LUK 8:14 And the one falling into the thorn-bushes - these are the ones having heard, and by anxieties and riches and pleasures of existence going along are choked, and do not bring to perfection.
LUK 8:15 But the one in the good earth - these are they who with a good and better heart, having heard the word, hold it, and bear fruit with patience.
LUK 8:16 And no one lighting a lamp covers it with a vessel, or puts it underneath a bed; but upon a lamp-stand he places it, that the ones entering shall see the light.
LUK 8:17 For not is anything hidden which shall not become open; nor concealed which shall not be known, and should come into the open.
LUK 8:18 Take heed then how you hear! For who ever should have, to him it shall be given; and whoever should not have, even what he seems to have shall be taken from him.
LUK 8:19 And there came to him the mother and his brothers, and were not able to meet with him because of the multitude.
LUK 8:20 And it was reported to him, saying, Your mother and your brothers stand outside, wanting to see you.
LUK 8:21 But responding he said to them, My mother and my brothers are these - the ones hearing the word of God, and doing it.
LUK 8:22 And it came to pass on one of the days, and he stepped into a boat, and his disciples. And he said to them, We should go through unto the other side of the lake. And they embarked.
LUK 8:23 And during their sailing he slept soundly. And a tempest of wind came down onto the lake; and they were filling up, and were exposed to danger.
LUK 8:24 And coming forward, they awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. And he having arisen, reproached the wind and the swell of water; and they ceased, and there became a calm.
LUK 8:25 And he said to them, Where is the trust of yours? But fearing they wondered, saying to one another, Who then is this, that even to the winds he gives orders, and to the water, and they obey him?
LUK 8:26 And they sailed down unto the region of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.
LUK 8:27 And in his coming forth unto the land, a certain man encountered him from out of the city, who had demons for a fit amount of time, and was not dressed in a garment, and abided not in a house, but in the tombs.
LUK 8:28 And beholding Jesus, and having shouted aloud, he fell at him, and with a great voice said, What is it to me and to you, Jesus, O son of the highest God? I beseech you that you should not torment me.
LUK 8:29 (For he summoned the unclean spirit to come forth from the man. For many times it seized him with force. And he was bound in chains, and being kept in shackles; and tearing up the bonds, he was driven by the demon into the wildernesses.)
LUK 8:30 And Jesus asked him, saying, What is the name given to you? And he said, Legion; because many demons entered into him.
LUK 8:31 And they appealed to him that he should not give orders to them to go forth into the abyss.
LUK 8:32 But there was there a herd of swine, a fit amount grazing in the mountain. And they appealed to him that he should commission to them to enter into those. And he commissioned to them.
LUK 8:33 And the demons going forth from the man, entered into the swine. And the herd advanced down the precipice into the lake, and choked.
LUK 8:34 And the ones grazing having beheld the thing taking place, they fled. And having gone forth they reported in the city, and in the fields.
LUK 8:35 And they came forth to behold the thing taking place; and they came to Jesus. And they found the man from whom the demons had went forth sitting down, being dressed and being of a sound mind, by the feet of Jesus. And they feared.
LUK 8:36 And the ones also beholding reported to them how the demon-possessed man was delivered.
LUK 8:37 And all the multitude of the place round about of the Gadarenes asked him to go forth from them; for they were held by a great fear. And he, stepping into the boat, returned.
LUK 8:38 And the man from whom came forth the demons beseeched him to be with him. But Jesus released him, saying,
LUK 8:39 Return unto your house, and describe as much as God did for you! And he went forth through the whole city proclaiming as much as Jesus did for him.
LUK 8:40 And it came to pass in the returning of Jesus, the multitude gladly received him; for they were all expecting him.
LUK 8:41 And behold, there came a man whose name was Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue existing there. And having fallen by the feet of Jesus, he appealed to him to enter into his house;
LUK 8:42 for his daughter was an only child to him, about twelve years old, and she was dying. And in his going the multitudes thronged him.
LUK 8:43 And a woman being in a flow of blood for twelve years, who consumed her entire livelihood on physicians, not being able by anyone to be cured,
LUK 8:44 having come forward behind him, touched the decorative hem of his cloak. And immediately the flow of her blood stopped.
LUK 8:45 And Jesus said, Who is the one touching me? And all denying, Peter said, and the ones with him, Master, the multitudes constrain you and squeeze, and you say, Who is the one touching me?
LUK 8:46 And Jesus said, Someone touched me; for I know power went forth from me.
LUK 8:47 And the woman knowing that she did not escape notice came trembling. And having fallen before him, for which reason she touched him, she reported to him in the presence of all the people, and how she was healed immediately.
LUK 8:48 And he said to her, Take courage, O daughter; the belief of yours has delivered you, go in peace!
LUK 8:49 And while he was speaking, there comes one from the chief of the synagogue, saying to him that, Your daughter has died; do not inconvenience the teacher!
LUK 8:50 And Jesus having heard, responded to him, saying, Do not fear! Only trust and she shall be delivered!
LUK 8:51 And entering into the house, he did not allow anyone to enter except Peter, and John, and James, and the father of the child, and the mother.
LUK 8:52 And all wept, and beat their chest over her. But he said, Weep not! She died not, but sleeps.
LUK 8:53 And they ridiculed him, knowing that she died.
LUK 8:54 And he, having cast all outside, and having taken hold of her hand, spoke out loud, saying, Child, arise!
LUK 8:55 And her spirit returned, and she rose up immediately. And he ordered for her to be given something to eat.
LUK 8:56 And her parents were amazed. And he exhorted them to tell no one the thing having taken place.
LUK 9:1 And having called together the twelve disciples, he gave to them power and authority over all the demons, and to cure diseases.
LUK 9:2 And he sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God, and to heal the ones being weak.
LUK 9:3 And he said to them, Take nothing for the way - neither rods, nor provision bag, nor bread, nor money, nor to have up to two inner garments!
LUK 9:4 And into which ever house you should enter, there abide! And from there go forth!
LUK 9:5 And as many as should not have received you, in going forth from that city, even the dust of your feet brush off for a testimony unto them!
LUK 9:6 And coming forth, they went through the towns, announcing good news, and curing everywhere.
LUK 9:7 And Herod the tetrarch heard all the things taking place by him; and he was perplexed because of it being said by some that, John has been raised from the dead;
LUK 9:8 and by some that, Elijah was appeared; and others that, A prophet, one of the ancient ones rose up.
LUK 9:9 And Herod said, John I beheaded, but who is this concerning of which I hear such? And he sought to see him.
LUK 9:10 And returning, the apostles described to him as much as they did. And taking them to himself, he retreated in private into a desolate place of a city being called Bethsaida.
LUK 9:11 But the multitudes, having known, followed him. And having received them, he spoke to them concerning the kingdom of God, and the ones having need of treatment he healed.
LUK 9:12 But the day began to decline, and the twelve having come forward, said to him, Dismiss the multitude! that going forth into the round about towns and fields they should rest up, and should find provisions; for we are here in a desolate place.
LUK 9:13 And he said to them, You give to them to eat! And they said, There are not with us more than five breads and two fishes; unless having gone we should buy foods for all this people - multitude..
LUK 9:14 For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Lay them down in resting-places by fifty.
LUK 9:15 And they did so, and laid them all down together.
LUK 9:16 And having taken the five breads and the two fishes, looking up into the heaven, he blessed them, and broke off in pieces, and gave to the disciples to place near to the multitude.
LUK 9:17 And they ate, and all were filled. And was taken up the abounding portion to them of pieces - twelve hampers.
LUK 9:18 And it came to pass in his being praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he questioned them, saying, Whom do the multitudes say me to be?
LUK 9:19 And they answering said, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and others that, A certain prophet of the ancients rose up.
LUK 9:20 And he said to them, But you, whom do you say me to be? And answering Peter said, The Christ of God.
LUK 9:21 And he having reproached them, exhorted them to tell no one this,
LUK 9:22 having said that, It is necessary for the son of man to suffer many things, and to be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and to be killed, and the third day to be raised.
LUK 9:23 And he said to all, If any wants to come after me, let him totally reject himself, and lift his cross by day, and follow me!
LUK 9:24 For who ever should want to preserve his life shall lose it; but who ever should lose his life, because of me, this one shall preserve it.
LUK 9:25 For what benefits a man, having gained the whole world, but destroying himself or suffering loss?
LUK 9:26 For who ever is ashamed of me and my words, this one the son of man shall be ashamed of, whenever he should come in his glory, and of the father, and of the holy angels.
LUK 9:27 But I say to you truly, there are some of the ones here standing, who in no way shall taste death, until whenever they should see the kingdom of God.
LUK 9:28 And it came to pass after these words, about eight days, and having taken with himself Peter and John and James, he ascended into the mountain to pray.
LUK 9:29 And it came to pass in his praying, the form of his person became another, and his clothes were flashing white.
LUK 9:30 And behold, two men conversed together with him, who were Moses and Elijah.
LUK 9:31 The ones appearing in glory spoke of his departure which he was about to fulfill in Jerusalem.
LUK 9:32 And Peter and the ones with him were being weighed down with sleep. And staying awake they beheld his glory, and the two men standing with him.
LUK 9:33 And it came to pass in their parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here; for we should make three tents - one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah; not knowing what he says.
LUK 9:34 And of his saying these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them. And they were afraid in the entering of those ones into the cloud.
LUK 9:35 And a voice came from out of the cloud, saying, This is my son the beloved, of him hear!
LUK 9:36 And in the voice taking place, Jesus was found alone. And they were quiet, and they reported to no one in those days anything of what they had seen.
LUK 9:37 And it came to pass on the next day, of their going down from the mountain, there met with him a great multitude.
LUK 9:38 And behold, a man from the multitude yelled out, saying, Teacher, I beseech you to look upon my son! For he is an only child to me.
LUK 9:39 And behold, a spirit takes him, and suddenly he cries out; and it throws him into a spasm with foam, and hardly retreats from him breaking him.
LUK 9:40 And I beseeched your disciples that they should cast it out; and they were not able.
LUK 9:41 And responding Jesus said, O unbelieving generation and being perverted, until how long will I be with you, and endure you? Bring your son here!
LUK 9:42 And while yet during his coming forward, the demon tore him, and he flailed about. And Jesus gave reproach to the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and gave him back to his father.
LUK 9:43 And all were overwhelmed at the magnificence of God. And as all were wondering over all what Jesus did, he said to his disciples,
LUK 9:44 You put into your ears these words! The son of man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.
LUK 9:45 And they knew not this saying, for it was being covered up from them, that they should not perceive it. And they feared to ask him concerning this saying.
LUK 9:46 And there entered an arguing among them - the one of who ever may be the greater of them.
LUK 9:47 And Jesus, knowing the arguing of their hearts, having taken hold of a child, set it by himself.
LUK 9:48 And he said to them, Who ever should receive this child in my name, receives me. And who ever receives me receives the one sending me. For the lesser existing among all you, this one will be great.
LUK 9:49 And responding John said, Master, we beheld one casting out the demons by your name; and we restrained him, for he does not follow with us.
LUK 9:50 And Jesus said to him, Restrain not! For the one which is not against us is for us.
LUK 9:51 And it came to pass in the filling up the days of his being lifted up, that he firmly fixed his face to go into Jerusalem.
LUK 9:52 And he sent messengers before his face. And having gone, they entered into a town of Samaritans, so as to prepare for him.
LUK 9:53 And not did they received him, for his face was as going to Jerusalem.
LUK 9:54 And knowing, his disciples James and John said, O Lord, do you want we should tell fire to descend from heaven, and consume them, as also Elijah did?
LUK 9:55 And turning, he gave reproach to them, and said, You know not of what spirit you are.
LUK 9:56 For the son of man came not to destroy lives of men, but to preserve. And they went unto another town.
LUK 9:57 And it came to pass in their going in the way, a certain one said to him, I will follow you where ever you should go, O Lord.
LUK 9:58 And Jesus said to him, The foxes have dens, and the birds of the heaven shelters; but the son of man does not have where he should lean the head.
LUK 9:59 And he said to another, Follow me! And he said, O Lord, commit it to me having gone forth first to bury my father!
LUK 9:60 And Jesus said to him, Let the dead bury their own dead; but you going forth declare the kingdom of God!
LUK 9:61 And said also another, I will follow you, O Lord, but first commit to me to dismiss the ones in my house.
LUK 9:62 And Jesus said to him, No one having put his hand upon a plow, and looking at the things behind, is fit for the kingdom of God.
LUK 10:1 And after these things the Lord made manifest even another seventy, and sent them by two before his face into every city and place, where he was about to come.
LUK 10:2 Then he said to them, Indeed the harvest is great, but the workers few. Beseech then the Lord of the harvest, that he should put workers into his harvest!
LUK 10:3 Go! Behold, I send you as lambs in the midst of wolves.
LUK 10:4 Do not bear a bag, nor provision, nor sandals! And no one in the way should you greet.
LUK 10:5 And into which ever house you should enter, first say! Peace to this house.
LUK 10:6 And if there might be there a son of peace, your peace shall rest upon him. But if not, unto you it shall return.
LUK 10:7 And in the same house abide, eating and drinking the things of theirs! For the worker is worthy of his wage. Do not cross over from house to house!
LUK 10:8 And into what ever city you should enter, and they should receive you, eat the things placed near to you!
LUK 10:9 And attend to the weak in it! And say to them, The kingdom of God approaches unto you!
LUK 10:10 And into which ever city you should enter, and they should not receive you, having gone forth into its square, you say!
LUK 10:11 Even the dust cleaving to us from your city we wipe off against you. Except know this! That the kingdom of God has approached unto you.
LUK 10:12 But I say to you that, In that day it will be more endurable to Sodom than to that city.
LUK 10:13 Woe to you, Chorazin. Woe to you, Bethsaida. For if in Tyre and Sidon took place the works of power, which took place in you, even earlier they would have repented sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
LUK 10:14 Furthermore to Tyre and Sidon it will be more endurable in the judgment, than for you.
LUK 10:15 And you, Capernaum, the one having been raised up high unto the heaven - unto Hades you shall be brought down.
LUK 10:16 The one hearing you hears me; and the one disregarding you disregards me; and the one disregarding me disregards the one having sent me.
LUK 10:17 And the seventy returned with joy, saying, O Lord, even the demons are submitted to us in your name.
LUK 10:18 And he said to them, I viewed Satan as lightning falling from out of the heaven.
LUK 10:19 Behold, I give to you the authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions, and upon all the power of the enemy; and nothing in any way shall injure you.
LUK 10:20 Furthermore in this rejoice not, that the spirits submit to you! But you rejoice, that your names are written in the heavens!
LUK 10:21 In the same hour Jesus exulted in the spirit, and said, I make acknowledgment to you, O father, O Lord of the heaven and of the earth, that you concealed these things from wise ones and experts, and uncovered them to simple ones. Yes, O father; for thus it was benevolent before you.
LUK 10:22 And turning to the disciples he said, All things were delivered up to me by my father. And no one knows who is the son, except the father; and who is the father, except the son, and to whom ever the son wants to reveal.
LUK 10:23 And having turned to the disciples, in private said, Blessed are the eyes seeing what you see.
LUK 10:24 For I say to you, that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see, and saw not; and to hear what you hear, and heard not.
LUK 10:25 And behold, a certain legal expert rose up, putting him to test, and saying, Teacher, what doing shall I inherit eternal life?
LUK 10:26 And he said to him, In the law, what has been written? how do you read?
LUK 10:27 And answering he said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your thought; and your neighbor as yourself.
LUK 10:28 And he said to him, Rightly you answered. Do this, and you shall live!
LUK 10:29 But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor?
LUK 10:30 And undertaking Jesus said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem unto Jericho, and fell among robbers, who both having stripped him, and having placed wounds upon him, went forth leaving him half-dead - all happening by chance.
LUK 10:31 And by chance a certain priest went down by that way. And beholding him, he passed by on the other side.
LUK 10:32 And in like manner also a Levite, being at the place, having come and beholding, passed by on the other side.
LUK 10:33 But a certain Samaritan, traveling, came by him. And beholding him, he was moved with compassion.
LUK 10:34 And having come forward, he bound his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. And having set him upon his own beast, he led him unto an inn, and took care of him.
LUK 10:35 And on the next morning, having come forth, casting down two denarii, he gave them to the inn-keeper, and said to him, Take care of him; and whatsoever you should spend besides, I in my returning back, will repay to you!
LUK 10:36 Which then of these three seems to you to have been the neighbor of the one having fallen among the robbers?
LUK 10:37 And he said, The one having mercy with him. Jesus said then to him, Go, and you do in like manner!
LUK 10:38 And it came to pass in their going, that he entered into a certain town. And a certain woman, by name Martha, welcomed him into her house.
LUK 10:39 And thus there was a sister being called Mary, who also having sat by the feet of Jesus, heard his word.
LUK 10:40 But Martha was distracted about much service. And having stood by, she said, O Lord, is it not a care to you that my sister left me alone to serve? Speak then to her that she should aid me!
LUK 10:41 And answering Jesus said to her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and turbulent concerning many things;
LUK 10:42 but there is one need; and Mary chose the good portion, which shall not be removed from her.
LUK 11:1 And it came to pass in his being in a certain place praying, as he ceased, said a certain one of his disciples to him, O Lord, teach us to pray, as also John taught his disciples!
LUK 11:2 And he said to them, Whenever you pray, say! Our father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified! Let your kingdom come! Let your will become! as in heaven, also upon the earth.
LUK 11:3 Give to us our bread sufficient for the day!
LUK 11:4 And forgive to us our sins! for also to them we forgive - to all owing us. And do not insert us for a test! But rescue us from evil!
LUK 11:5 And he said to them, Who among you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight, and should say to him, O friend, furnish to me three breads!
LUK 11:6 since a friend of mine is come from a journey to me, and I do not have the thing I shall place for him?
LUK 11:7 And that one inside answering should say, Do not make troubles for me! Already the door is locked, and my children are with me in bed; I am not able to rise up to give to you.
LUK 11:8 I say to you, Even if he will not give to him having risen up, because of the being his friend, indeed because of his insistence, he will arise to give to him as much as he needs.
LUK 11:9 And I say to you, Ask! And it shall be given to you. Seek! And you shall find. Knock! And it shall be opened to you.
LUK 11:10 For all asking receive; and the one seeking finds; and to the one knocking it shall be opened.
LUK 11:11 And which of you being a father, and the son shall ask for bread, shall give to him a stone? Shall also if he asks for a fish, instead of a fish, give to him a serpent?
LUK 11:12 Or even if he should ask for an egg, will he give to him a scorpion?
LUK 11:13 If then you, being wicked ones, know to give good gifts to your children; how much more the father from heaven shall give holy spirit to the ones asking him?
LUK 11:14 And he was casting out a demon, and it was mute. And it happened of the demon coming forth, the mute spoke; and the multitudes marveled.
LUK 11:15 And certain ones of them said, By Beelzeboul, ruler of the demons, he casts out the demons.
LUK 11:16 And others testing, sought a sign from him from heaven.
LUK 11:17 But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom being divided against itself is made desolate; and a house against a house falls.
LUK 11:18 And if also Satan be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? for you say, By Beelzeboul is my casting out the demons.
LUK 11:19 But if I by Beelzeboul cast out the demons, your sons, by whom do they cast out? on account of this they shall be your judges.
LUK 11:20 But if by the finger of God I cast out the demons, then came upon you the kingdom of God.
LUK 11:21 Whenever the strong man, being armed, should guard his own courtyard, his possessions are in peace.
LUK 11:22 But when the stronger one than he in coming, should overcome him, he takes his full armor upon which he yields, and distributes his spoils.
LUK 11:23 The one not being with me is against me; and the one not gathering together with me disperses.
LUK 11:24 Whenever the unclean spirit should go forth from the man, he goes through waterless places, seeking rest; and not finding, he says, I will return unto my house from where I came forth.
LUK 11:25 And having come, he finds it being swept and trimmed.
LUK 11:26 Then he goes, and takes to himself seven other more evil spirits than himself; and they enter to dwell there; and becomes the last of that man worse than the first.
LUK 11:27 And it happened in his saying these things, a certain woman having lifted up her voice from out of the multitude, said to him, Blessed is the belly bearing you, and the breasts of which you nursed.
LUK 11:28 And he said, Certainly, blessed are the ones hearing the word of God, and keeping it.
LUK 11:29 And the multitudes being gathered together, he began to say, This generation is wicked. It seeks anxiously a sign; and not a sign shall be given it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
LUK 11:30 For as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so shall be also the son of man to this generation.
LUK 11:31 The queen of the south shall arise in the judgment with the men of this generation, and shall condemn them. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, more than a Solomon is here.
LUK 11:32 Men of Nineveh shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it. For they repented at the proclamation of Jonah; and behold, more than a Jonah is here.
LUK 11:33 And no one lighting a lamp, puts it in a hidden place, nor under a bushel, but upon the lamp-stand, that the ones entering shall see by the brightness - light..
LUK 11:34 The lamp of the body is the eye. Whenever then your eye might be sincere, then your entire body is giving light; but when it might be evil, then your body is dark.
LUK 11:35 Watch then lest the light in you is darkness!
LUK 11:36 If then your entire body is giving light, not having any part dark, it will be giving light entirely, as whenever the lamp's lighting should give you light.
LUK 11:37 And in his speaking, a certain Pharisee asked him that he should dine with him. And entering he reclined.
LUK 11:38 And the Pharisee beholding, wondered that he immersed not first before the dinner.
LUK 11:39 And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and the platter; but the inside of you is full of seizure and wickedness.
LUK 11:40 Foolish one, did not the one making the outside also make the inside?
LUK 11:41 Furthermore, the things being within give charity! And behold, then everything is clean to you!
LUK 11:42 But woe to you, Pharisees. For you tithe the mint and the rue and every vegetation, and pass by the judgment and the love of God - these things are necessary to do, and those things are not to be dismissed.
LUK 11:43 Woe to you, Pharisees, for you love the first seat in the synagogues, and the greetings in the markets.
LUK 11:44 Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are as the concealed tombs, and the men walking upon them have not known it.
LUK 11:45 And reponding a certain person of the legal experts, says to him, Teacher, these things saying you even insult us.
LUK 11:46 And he said, And to you legal experts, woe, for you load men with loads hard to bear, and yourselves do not touch the loads with one of your fingers.
LUK 11:47 Woe to you, for you build the tombs of the prophets, but your fathers killed them.
LUK 11:48 Then you witness and assent to the works of your fathers; for they indeed killed them, and you build their tombs.
LUK 11:49 On account of this also the wisdom of God said, I will send unto them prophets and apostles, and of them they will kill and drive out;
LUK 11:50 that the blood of all the prophets being poured out from the founding of the world should be required of this generation;
LUK 11:51 from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias, the one perishing between the altar and the house. Yes, I say to you, It will be required of this generation.
LUK 11:52 Woe to you legal experts, for you take away the key of knowledge. You yourselves enter not, and the ones entering you restrain.
LUK 11:53 And of his saying these things to them, the scribes - legal experts and the Pharisees began. awfully to press, and to ensnare him with off-hand questions concerning many things -
LUK 11:54 lying in wait for him, seeking to hunt something from out of his mouth, that they should charge him.
LUK 12:1 In a time when there assembled of the myriads of the multitude, so as to trample one another, he began to say to his disciples first, Take heed to yourselves of the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
LUK 12:2 For nothing is being covered which shall not be uncovered; and hidden which shall not be made known.
LUK 12:3 Because as much as you should say in the darkness shall be heard in the light; and what you spoke in the ear in the inner chambers shall be proclaimed upon the roofs.
LUK 12:4 And I say to you my friends, Fear not from the ones killing the body, and after these things having nothing more extra to do!
LUK 12:5 But I will plainly show to you who you should fear. You fear the one, after the killing, having authority to put into Gehenna! Yes, I say to you, this one fear!
LUK 12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two assarions, and one of them is not forgotten before God?
LUK 12:7 But even the hairs of your head have all been counted. Do not then fear! you differ from many sparrows.
LUK 12:8 But I say to you, Every one who ever should make acknowledgement in me before men, also the son of man will make acknowledgement in him before the angels of God.
LUK 12:9 But the one denying me before men will be totally rejected before the angels of God.
LUK 12:10 And every one who shall say a word against the son of man, it shall be forgiven him. But to the one blaspheming against the holy spirit, it will not be forgiven.
LUK 12:11 And whenever they should bring you unto the synagogues, and the rulers, and the authorities, be not anxious how or what you should plead or what you should say!
LUK 12:12 For the holy spirit shall teach you in the same hour what is necessary to say.
LUK 12:13 And said a certain one to him from out of the multitude, Teacher, tell to my brother to portion with me the inheritance.
LUK 12:14 And he said to him, Man, who ordained me magistrate or apportioner for you?
LUK 12:15 And he said to them, See, and guard from the desire for wealth! for not to anyone is his life in the abundance of his possessions.
LUK 12:16 And he spoke a parable to them, saying, The place of a certain rich man bore well.
LUK 12:17 And he reasoned in himself, saying, What shall I do, for I do not have a place where to gather up my fruits?
LUK 12:18 And he said, This I will do. I will demolish my storehouses, and I will build greater; and I will gather there all my produce and my good things.
LUK 12:19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many good things laid up for many years - rest, eat, drink, be glad!
LUK 12:20 But God said to him, Foolish one, this night your soul will be exacted from you; and what you prepare, to whom will it be?
LUK 12:21 Thus the one treasuring up for himself, and not being rich unto God.
LUK 12:22 And he said to his disciples, Because of this I say to you, Let not your life be anxious in what you should eat; nor the body in what you should put on!
LUK 12:23 Life is more than nourishment, and the body more than the garment.
LUK 12:24 Contemplate the crows! For they sow not, nor reap; (the ones which there is not a storeroom nor storehouse;) and God maintains them. How much more you differ from the birds?
LUK 12:25 But who of you being anxious is able to add unto his stature one cubit?
LUK 12:26 If then neither the least thing you are able, why concerning the rest are you anxious?
LUK 12:27 Contemplate the lilies how they grow! it labors not, nor spins. But I say to you, not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed as one of these.
LUK 12:28 But if the grass in the field, being today, and tomorrow is being thrown into the oven, (the one God so clothes); how much more you, O ones of little belief?
LUK 12:29 And you, do not seek what you should eat, or what you should drink, and do not be raised up high!
LUK 12:30 For these things all the nations of the world seek anxiously; but your father knows that you need these.
LUK 12:31 Furthermore seek the kingdom of God! and all these shall be added to you.
LUK 12:32 Fear not small flock! For your father thinks well to give to you the kingdom.
LUK 12:33 Sell your possessions, and give charity! Make to yourselves bags not growing old! a treasure unceasing in the heavens, where thief shall not approach, nor moth ruin!
LUK 12:34 For where your treasure is, there also your heart will be.
LUK 12:35 Let your loins be girded, and the lamps burning!
LUK 12:36 And you be likened to men waiting for their Lord, as to when he disengages from the wedding feasts; that having come and having knocked, immediately they should open to him.
LUK 12:37 Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord coming shall find being vigilant. Amen I say to you, that he will gird himself, and lay them down, and going by will serve to them.
LUK 12:38 And if he should come in the second watch, or he should come in the third watch, and should find them thus, blessed are those servants.
LUK 12:39 But know this! That if the master of the house knew what hour the thief comes, he would have been vigilant, and would not have let his house be dug through.
LUK 12:40 And you then be prepared! For the hour you think not - the son of man comes.
LUK 12:41 And Peter said to him, O Lord, do you speak this parable to us, or also to all?
LUK 12:42 And the Lord said, Who then is the trustworthy and practical manager, whom the master places over his attendants, to give in time the measure of grain?
LUK 12:43 Blessed is that servant, whom his master having come finds him doing thus.
LUK 12:44 Truly I say to you, that over all his possessions he will place him.
LUK 12:45 But if that servant should say in his heart, My master passes time to come; and should begin to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be intoxicated;
LUK 12:46 the master of that servant shall come in a day in which he does not expect, and in an hour in which he knows not, and will cut him in pieces, and his portion will be put with the unbelieving.
LUK 12:47 And that servant, which having known the will of his master, and not having prepared, nor doing according to his will, shall be flayed much.
LUK 12:48 But the one not having known, but doing things worthy of strokes, shall be flayed little. And to every one whom much was given, much shall be sought from him. And to whom they placed near much, more extra shall they ask him.
LUK 12:49 I came to throw fire onto the earth; and what will I, if already it be lighted?
LUK 12:50 But an immersion I have to be immersed; and how constrained I am until of which it should be finished?
LUK 12:51 Do you think that I came to execute peace on the earth? No, I say to you, but only division.
LUK 12:52 For there will be from now on five in one house being divided - three against two, and two against three.
LUK 12:53 Father shall be divided against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against mother; mother-in-law against the daughter-in-law, and she, the daughter-in-law, against her mother-in-law.
LUK 12:54 And he said also to the multitudes, Whenever you should behold the cloud arising from the west, immediately you say, A heavy shower comes; and it happens thus.
LUK 12:55 And whenever a south wind is being blown, you say that, It will be a burning wind; and it happens.
LUK 12:56 Hypocrites, the surface of the heaven and of the earth you know to distinguish; but this time, how do you not distinguish?
LUK 12:57 And why even of yourselves do you not judge the just thing?
LUK 12:58 For as you go with your opponent unto the ruler in the way, make an effort to be dismissed from him; lest at any time he should drag you to the judge, and the judge should deliver you up to the exactor, and the exactor should throw you into prison.
LUK 12:59 I say to you, In no way shall you come forth from there, until of which even the last lepton you should repay.
LUK 13:1 And certain ones were at hand at the same time reporting to him concerning the Galileans, of whom the blood Pilate mixed with their sacrifices.
LUK 13:2 And responding Jesus said to them, Do you think that these Galileans were sinners beyond all the Galileans, that they suffered such things?
LUK 13:3 No, I say to you. But if you should not repent, you shall all perish likewise.
LUK 13:4 Or those ten and eight upon whom fell the tower in Siloam, and it killed them. Do you think that these were debtors beyond all men dwelling in Jerusalem?
LUK 13:5 No, I say to you. But if you should not repent, you shall all perish in like manner.
LUK 13:6 And he spoke this parable. A certain one had a fig-tree in his vineyard being planted; and he came seeking fruit on it, and found not.
LUK 13:7 And he said to the vine dresser, Behold, three years I come seeking fruit on this fig-tree, and I found not. Cut it down! Why even render the land useless?
LUK 13:8 But answering, he says to him, O master, leave it even this year, until whenever I shall dig around it, and throw manure.
LUK 13:9 And if then it should produce fruit, good. But if not you can cut it down for the about to be.
LUK 13:10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues in the sabbaths.
LUK 13:11 And behold, there was a woman having a spirit of feebleness ten and eight years, and was stooped down, and not able to raise her head totally.
LUK 13:12 And seeing her, Jesus called out, and said to her, O woman, you have been loosened of your feebleness.
LUK 13:13 And he placed hands upon her. And immediately she was erected, and glorified God.
LUK 13:14 But responding the chief of the synagogue being indignant, that Jesus cured on the sabbath, said to the multitude, Six days there are in which it behooves to work. During these then in coming you be cured, and not in the day of the sabbath!
LUK 13:15 And the Lord responded then to him, and said, Hypocrite, each of you in the sabbath, does he not untie his ox or donkey from the stable, and having taking it away waters it?
LUK 13:16 And this one, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan bound, behold, ten and eight years, must not she be untied from this bond on the day of the sabbath?
LUK 13:17 And of his saying these things, all the ones being adverse to him were put to shame. And all the multitude rejoiced over all the noble things being done by him.
LUK 13:18 And he said, To what is the kingdom of God likened? and to what shall I liken it?
LUK 13:19 It is likened to a kernel of mustard, which a man having taken threw into his own garden; and it grew, and became into a great tree; and the birds of the heaven encamped in the branches of it.
LUK 13:20 And again he said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?
LUK 13:21 It is likened to leaven, which having taken a woman hid in three seahs of flour, until of which all was leavened.
LUK 13:22 And he traveled by cities and towns, teaching, and making a coursing unto Jerusalem.
LUK 13:23 And said a certain one to him, O Lord, are there few being delivered? And he said to them,
LUK 13:24 Struggle to enter through the narrow gate! for many, I say to you, will seek to enter, and will not be able.
LUK 13:25 From of which ever time the master of the house should arise, and should lock the door, and you should begin outside to stand, and to knock on the door, saying, O lord, O lord, open to us! And answering, he shall say to you, I do not know you - from what place you are.
LUK 13:26 Then you will begin to say, We ate in your presence, and we drank, and in our squares you taught.
LUK 13:27 And he shall say, I say to you, I do not know you, from what place you are; depart from me all workers of iniquity!
LUK 13:28 There there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth, whenever you should see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you being cast forth outside.
LUK 13:29 And they shall come from east and west, and north and south, and shall lie down in the kingdom of God.
LUK 13:30 And behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.
LUK 13:31 On the same day came forward certain Pharisees, saying to him, Come forth, and go from here! For Herod wants to kill you.
LUK 13:32 And he said to them, Having gone, you tell to the fox this, Behold, I cast out demons, and I complete works of healing today and tomorrow, and in the third day I am perfected.
LUK 13:33 Furthermore, it is necessary for me today, and tomorrow, and the next to go. For it is not permitted a prophet to perish outside Jerusalem.
LUK 13:34 Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one killing the prophets, and stoning the ones being sent to her; how often I wanted to assemble your children in the manner a hen assembles her own nest under the wings, and you wanted not.
LUK 13:35 Behold, your house is left to you desolate. And I say to you that, In no way shall you behold me, until whenever it should come when you should say, Being blessed is the one coming in the name of the Lord.
LUK 14:1 And it came to pass in his coming into a certain house of the rulers of the Pharisees on a sabbath to eat bread, that they were closely watching him.
LUK 14:2 And behold, a certain man was dropsical before him.
LUK 14:3 And responding Jesus spoke to the legal experts and Pharisees, saying, Is it allowed to cure on the sabbath?
LUK 14:4 But they were still. And taking hold, he healed him, and dismissed him.
LUK 14:5 And responding to them, he said, Which of you having a donkey or ox that falls into a well, and not immediately will pull him up on the day of the sabbath?
LUK 14:6 And they were not able to answer to him as to these things.
LUK 14:7 And he spoke to the ones being invited a parable, giving heed how they chose the first places; saying to them,
LUK 14:8 Whenever you should be invited by anyone to wedding feasts, you should not lie down to eat in the first place; lest at any time a more important one than you might be invited by him;
LUK 14:9 and having come, the one having invited you and him shall say to you, Give place to this one! And then you begin with shame to take the last place.
LUK 14:10 But whenever you should be invited, having gone, recline in the last place; that whenever the one having invited you should come, he should say to you, O friend, ascend higher! Then there will be glory to you in the presence of the ones reclining together with you.
LUK 14:11 For every one exalting himself shall be humbled; and the one humbling himself shall be exalted.
LUK 14:12 And he said also to the one having invited him, Whenever you should make a dinner or supper, do not call your friends, nor your brothers, nor your relatives, nor rich neighbors! lest at any time also they invite you in return, and there should be a recompense to you.
LUK 14:13 But whenever you make a banquet, call the poor, maimed, lame, blind!
LUK 14:14 And blessed you will be; for they do not have anything to recompense to you. For it shall be recompensed to you in the resurrection of the just ones.
LUK 14:15 And having heard, a certain one of the ones reclining together with these, said to him, Blessed is the one who shall eat dinner in the kingdom of God.
LUK 14:16 And he said to him, A certain man made a great supper, and invited many.
LUK 14:17 And he sent his servant at the hour of the supper to say to the ones being invited, Come! for already all is prepared.
LUK 14:18 And they began by one to ask pardon - all of them. The first said to him, I bought a field, and I have a necessity to go forth and to see it. I ask you, Have me pardoned!
LUK 14:19 And another said, I bought five teams of oxen, and I go to try them. I ask you, Have me pardoned!
LUK 14:20 And another said, I married a wife, and on account of this I am not able to come.
LUK 14:21 And that servant having come, reported to his master these things. Then being provoked to anger the master of the house said to his servant, Go forth quickly into the squares and streets of the city, and the poor and maimed and lame and blind bring here!
LUK 14:22 And the servant said, O master, it has taken place as you ordered, and still there is place.
LUK 14:23 And the master said to the servant, Go forth into the ways and fences, and compel them to enter, that my house should be filled!
LUK 14:24 For I say to you that, Not one of those men having been invited shall taste of my supper.
LUK 14:25 And going with him were great multitudes. And having turned he said to them,
LUK 14:26 If anyone comes to me, and does not detest his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brothers, and sisters, and still also his own life, he is not able to be my disciple.
LUK 14:27 And whosoever does not bear his cross, and come after me, is not able to be my disciple.
LUK 14:28 For who of you, wanting to build a tower, not having first sat down to tally the expense, sees if he has the things for completion?
LUK 14:29 That lest at any time having set its foundation, and not being able to complete it, all the ones viewing should begin to mock him,
LUK 14:30 saying that, This man began to build, and was not able to complete.
LUK 14:31 Or what king, going to engage with another king in war, does not sit first to consult if he is able with ten thousand to meet the one with twenty thousand coming against him?
LUK 14:32 But if not, still of his being at a distance, having sent an embassy, he asks the terms for peace.
LUK 14:33 So then, every one of you who does not send away to all the things he himself possesses, is not able to be my disciple.
LUK 14:34 Salt is good, but if the salt should become insipid, by what means shall it be seasoned?
LUK 14:35 Neither for earth, nor for manure is it fit - they throw it outside. The one having ears to hear let him hear!
LUK 15:1 And were approaching to him all the tax collectors and the sinners to hear him.
LUK 15:2 And the Pharisees and the scribes complained, saying that, This one favorably receives sinners, and eats with them.
LUK 15:3 And he spoke to them this parable, saying,
LUK 15:4 What man of you, having a hundred sheep, and having lost one of them, leaves not the ninety nine in the wilderness, and goes after the one being lost, until he should find it?
LUK 15:5 And having found, he places it upon his own shoulders, rejoicing.
LUK 15:6 And having come unto the house, he calls together the friends and the neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice along with me! for I found my sheep, the one being lost.
LUK 15:7 I say to you that, Thus there will be joy in the heaven over one sinner repenting, than over ninety nine just ones who have not a need for repentance.
LUK 15:8 Or what woman having ten drachmas, if she should lose one drachma, does not light a lamp, and sweeps the house, and seeks carefully until whenever she should find it?
LUK 15:9 And having found, she calls together the friends and the neighbors, saying, Rejoice along with me! for I found the drachma which I lost.
LUK 15:10 Thus I say to you, joy takes place before the angels of God over one sinner repenting.
LUK 15:11 And he said, A certain man had two sons.
LUK 15:12 And the younger of them said to the father, O father, give to me the assigned part of the wealth. And he divided to them the livelihood.
LUK 15:13 And after not many days the younger son having gathered all, traveled abroad unto a place afar, and there dispersed his wealth living carnally.
LUK 15:14 And of him spending all, there became a strong famine in that place; and he began to fail.
LUK 15:15 And having gone he cleaved to one of the citizens of that place; and he sent him forth into his field to graze swine.
LUK 15:16 And he was desiring to fill his belly from the husks which the swine were eating, and no one gave to him.
LUK 15:17 And having come to himself, he said, How many hirelings of my father abound of breads, but I perish in hunger.
LUK 15:18 Having risen up, I will go to my father, and I will say to him, O father, I sinned unto the heaven, and before you,
LUK 15:19 and no longer am I worthy to be called your son; make me as one of your hirelings!
LUK 15:20 And having risen up, he went to his father. And still he being far at a distance, his father beheld him, and was moved with compassion, and running fell upon his neck, and kissed him.
LUK 15:21 And the son said to him, O father, I sinned unto the heaven, and before you, and no longer am I worthy to be called your son.
LUK 15:22 But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the foremost apparel, and put it on him! And give a ring for his hand, and sandals for the feet!
LUK 15:23 And having brought the well fed calf, sacrifice it! and eating we should be merry.
LUK 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is revived; and he was lost, and was found. And they began to be merry.
LUK 15:25 And his elder son was in the field. And as he approached coming to the house, he heard the harmony of sound and dancers.
LUK 15:26 And having called on one of the servants, he inquired about what these things may be.
LUK 15:27 And he said to him that, Your brother is come; and your father sacrificed the well fed calf, for being in health he recovered him.
LUK 15:28 And he was provoked to anger, and did not want to enter. Then his father having come forth comforted him.
LUK 15:29 And responding he said to the father, Behold, so many years I served you, and at no time passed by your command. And to me at no time did you give a kid, that I should be glad with my friends.
LUK 15:30 And when this your son, the one devouring your livelihood with harlots, came, you sacrificed for him the well fed calf.
LUK 15:31 And he said to him, Child, you at all times are with me, and all the things of mine are yours.
LUK 15:32 But to be merry and rejoice is necessary; for this your brother was dead, and is revived; and was lost, and is found.
LUK 16:1 And he said also to his disciples, A certain man was rich who had a manager; and this one was accused by him as wasting his possessions.
LUK 16:2 And having called him, he said to him, What is this I hear concerning you? Render a reckoning of your management; for you are not able any more to manage.
LUK 16:3 And the manager said to himself, What shall I do? for my master removes the management from me. I am not strong to dig; to beg I am ashamed.
LUK 16:4 I know what I shall do that whenever the management should be changed over that they shall receive me into their houses.
LUK 16:5 And calling on each one of the debtors of his master, he said to the first, How much do you owe my master?
LUK 16:6 And he said, A hundred baths of olive oil. And he said to him, Take your invoice, and sitting, quickly write fifty!
LUK 16:7 Thereupon to another he said, And you, how much do you owe? And he said, A hundred cors of grain. And he says to him, You take the invoice, and write eighty!
LUK 16:8 And the master praised the unrighteous manager, for he acted with practicality. For the sons of this eon are more practical than the sons of the light are in their own generation.
LUK 16:9 And I say to you, Make to yourselves friends from out of the mammon of the unrighteous, that whenever you should fail, they should receive you into the eternal tents.
LUK 16:10 The one trustworthy in the least also in much is trustworthy; and the one unjust in the least \Gr oligw - little. also is unjust in much.
LUK 16:11 If then in the unjust mammon you were not trustworthy, who will trust to you the true?
LUK 16:12 And if in that which is a stranger's you were not trustworthy, who will give to you your own?
LUK 16:13 No servant is able to serve two masters. For either the one he will detest, and the other he will love; or one he will hold to, and the other disdain. You are not able to serve God and mammon.
LUK 16:14 And the Pharisees being fond of money heard all these things; and they derided him.
LUK 16:15 And he said to them, You are the ones justifying yourselves before men; but God knows your hearts. For the lofty thing in men is an abomination before God.
LUK 16:16 The law and the prophets were until John. From then the kingdom of God is announced as good news, and every one forces into it.
LUK 16:17 But easier it is for the heaven and the earth to pass away, than for one dot to fall of the law.
LUK 16:18 Every one divorcing his wife, and marrying another, commits adultery; and every one marrying one being divorced from a husband, commits adultery.
LUK 16:19 And a certain man was rich, and dressed in purple and linen, being merry daily and glowing.
LUK 16:20 And there was a certain poor man, by name Lazarus, who was laid at his gatehouse, one having sores,
LUK 16:21 and desiring to be filled from the crumbs of the ones falling from the table of the rich man. And also the dogs coming licked his sores.
LUK 16:22 And it came to pass for the poor man to die, and for him to be carried by the angels into the bosom of Abraham. And the rich man also died, and was buried.
LUK 16:23 And in Hades, having lifted up his eyes, being in torment, he sees Abraham from far off, and Lazarus in his enfolded arms.
LUK 16:24 And he speaking out loud, said, O father Abraham, show mercy on me, and send forth Lazarus that he should dip the tip of his finger in water, and should cool my tongue; for I grieve in this flame.
LUK 16:25 And Abraham said, Son, remember that you accepted the good things of yours in your life, and Lazarus in like manner the bad. But now thus he is comforted, but you grieve.
LUK 16:26 And upon all these things, between us and you is a great chasm firmly fixed; so that the ones wanting to pass over on this side to you are not able, nor the ones from there to us should pass through.
LUK 16:27 And he said, I ask then you, O father, that you should send him forth unto the house of my father.
LUK 16:28 For I have five brothers; so that he should testify to them, that they should not also come unto this place of torment.
LUK 16:29 And Abraham says, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them!
LUK 16:30 But he said, No, O father Abraham. But if one from the dead should go to them, they shall repent.
LUK 16:31 And he said to him, If Moses and the prophets they did not hear, not even if one from the dead should rise up will they be yielded.
LUK 17:1 And he said to the disciples, It is inadmissible for the obstacles not to come; but woe to him through whom they come.
LUK 17:2 It would be equitable for him if a millstone of a donkey was encompassed around his neck, and he be tossed into the sea, than that he should cause one of these small ones to stumble.
LUK 17:3 Take heed to yourselves! And if your brother should sin against you, reproach him! And if he should repent, forgive him!
LUK 17:4 And if seven times of the day he should sin against you, and seven times of the day should turn, saying, I repent; you shall forgive him.
LUK 17:5 And the apostles said to the Lord, Add to us belief!
LUK 17:6 And the Lord said, If you have belief as a kernel of mustard, you would have said to this sycamine tree, Be rooted out, and be planted in the sea! and it would have obeyed you.
LUK 17:7 But who of you, having a servant plowing or tending, who entering from out of the field, will say immediately, in his having arrived, Recline to eat!
LUK 17:8 But will he not say to him, Prepare something! I should have supper. And girding yourself serve to me until I should have eaten and drunk! And after these things you shall eat and drink.
LUK 17:9 Shall he have favor with that servant because he did the things being ordered to him? I think not.
LUK 17:10 Thus also you, whenever you should have done all the things set in order for you, say that, We are useless servants; for what we ought to do we have done.
LUK 17:11 And it came to pass in his going unto Jerusalem, and he went through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
LUK 17:12 And of his entering into a certain town, there met with him ten leprous men, which stood at a distance.
LUK 17:13 And they lifted their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, show mercy on us!
LUK 17:14 And beholding he said to them, Having gone, display yourselves to the priests! And it came to pass, in their going away, they were cleansed.
LUK 17:15 And one of them, beholding that he was healed, returned with a great voice glorifying God,
LUK 17:16 and fell upon his face by his feet giving thanks to him. And he was a Samaritan.
LUK 17:17 And responding Jesus said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?
LUK 17:18 Were there not found any returning to give glory to God, except this foreigner?
LUK 17:19 And he said to him, Having risen up, go! the belief of yours has delivered you.
LUK 17:20 And having been asked by the Pharisees, When comes the kingdom of God? he answered them, and said, The kingdom of God comes not with observation.
LUK 17:21 Nor shall they say, Behold, here, or, behold, there. For behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
LUK 17:22 And he said to the disciples, There shall come days when you shall desire to see one of the days of the son of man, and you will not see.
LUK 17:23 And they shall say to you, Behold, here; or, behold, there. Do not go forth, nor pursue!
LUK 17:24 For as the lightning flashing from out of the one place under heaven, radiates unto the other place under heaven; so it will be also the son of man in his day.
LUK 17:25 But first it is necessary for him to suffer much, and to be rejected by this generation.
LUK 17:26 And as it happened in the days of Noah, so it will be also in the days of the son of man.
LUK 17:27 They ate, they drank, they married, they gave in marriage, as far as which day Noah entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed all.
LUK 17:28 In like manner also as it happened in the days of Lot - they ate, they drank, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building.
LUK 17:29 But in which day Lot went forth from Sodom, it rained fire and sulphur from heaven, and it destroyed all.
LUK 17:30 According to these things it will be in which day the son of man is revealed.
LUK 17:31 In that day, the one who shall be upon the roof, and his items are in the house, let him not go down to take them! And the one in the field, in like manner, let him not return to the things behind!
LUK 17:32 Remember Lot's wife!
LUK 17:33 Who ever should seek to preserve his soul shall lose it; and who ever should lose it brings it forth alive.
LUK 17:34 I say to you, In this night there will be two upon one bed; the one will be taken, and the other will be left.
LUK 17:35 Two women will be grinding together; one will be taken, and the other will be left.
LUK 17:36 Two men shall be in the field; the one will be taken and the other will be left.
LUK 17:37 And responding they say to him, Where, O Lord? And he said to them, Where the body, there the eagles will be gathered.
LUK 18:1 And he spoke also a parable to them, to the necessity at all times to pray, and not to tire;
LUK 18:2 saying, There was a certain judge in a certain city, not fearing God, and not respecting man.
LUK 18:3 And a widow was in that city; and she came to him, saying, Avenge me of my opponent!
LUK 18:4 And he did not want to for a time; but afterwards he said to himself, If even God I do not fear, and man I do not respect;
LUK 18:5 yet because this widow makes trouble to me, I shall avenge her, that it should not come to pass bruising me in the end.
LUK 18:6 And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says.
LUK 18:7 But God, shall he in no way execute vengeance for his chosen yelling to him day and night, and is lenient unto them?
LUK 18:8 I say to you that he shall execute his vengeance quickly. Furthermore, the son of man having come then, shall he find belief upon the earth?
LUK 18:9 And he spoke also to some, (the ones relying upon themselves that they are just ones, and treating with contempt the rest,) this parable.
LUK 18:10 Two men ascended unto the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector.
LUK 18:11 The Pharisee standing prayed these things to himself, God, I give thanks to you, that I am not as the rest of the men, predacious, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector.
LUK 18:12 I fast twice a sabbath, I tithe all as much as I acquire.
LUK 18:13 And the tax collector far off standing, wanted not even to lift up his eyes unto the heaven, but beat onto his breast, saying, God deal kindly with me the sinner.
LUK 18:14 I say to you, this one went down justified unto his house rather than that one. For every one exalting himself shall be humbled; and the one humbling himself shall be exalted.
LUK 18:15 And they brought to him also the babes, that he should touch them. But seeing, the disciples reproached them.
LUK 18:16 But Jesus, having called on them, said, Allow the children to come to me, and do not restrain them! for of such is the kingdom of God.
LUK 18:17 Amen I say to you, Who ever should not receive the kingdom of God as a child in no way shall enter into it.
LUK 18:18 And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good teacher, what having done shall I do to inherit eternal life?
LUK 18:19 And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except one - God.
LUK 18:20 The commandments you know, Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not witness falsely, esteem your father and your mother!
LUK 18:21 And he said, These all I kept from my youth.
LUK 18:22 And having heard these things, Jesus said to him, Still one thing to you is missing. All, as much as you have, sell and distribute to the poor! and you shall have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me!
LUK 18:23 But hearing these things, he became dejected; for he was rich, exceedingly.
LUK 18:24 And Jesus beholding him being dejected, said, How with difficulty the ones having things shall enter into the kingdom of God.
LUK 18:25 For it is easier for a camel to enter through the hole from an awl, than a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
LUK 18:26 And the ones hearing said, And who is able to be delivered?
LUK 18:27 And he said, The impossible things by men are possible with God.
LUK 18:28 And Peter said, Behold, we left all, and we followed you.
LUK 18:29 And he said to them, Amen I say to you, That there is no one who left house, or parents, or brothers, or wife, or children, because of the kingdom of God,
LUK 18:30 who in no way should recover much more in this time, and in the coming eon life eternal.
LUK 18:31 And having taken to himself the twelve, he said to them, Behold, we ascend unto Jerusalem, and all the things being written by the prophets about the son of man shall be finished.
LUK 18:32 For he shall be delivered to the nations, and will be mocked, and will be insulted, and will be spit upon.
LUK 18:33 And having been whipped, they shall kill him. And the third day he will rise up.
LUK 18:34 And they perceived nothing of these things. For this thing was being hidden from them, and they did not know the things being said.
LUK 18:35 And it came to pass in his approaching unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way begging.
LUK 18:36 And hearing the multitude traveling about, he inquired about what this may be.
LUK 18:37 And they reported to him that Jesus the Nazarene is going by.
LUK 18:38 And he yelled out, saying, Jesus, O son of David, show mercy on me!
LUK 18:39 And the ones going before reproached him, that he should keep silent. But he more rather cried out, O son of David, show mercy on me!
LUK 18:40 And having stopped, Jesus urged for him to be brought to him. And at his having approached, he asked him,
LUK 18:41 saying, What do you want I should do? And he said, O Lord, that I should gain sight.
LUK 18:42 And Jesus said to him, Gain sight! The belief of yours has delivered you.
LUK 18:43 And immediately he gained sight, and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, having beheld, gave praise to God.
LUK 19:1 And having entered he went through Jericho.
LUK 19:2 And behold, there was a man by name being called Zacchaeus, and he was a chief tax collector, and this one was rich.
LUK 19:3 And he was seeking to see who Jesus is. And he was not able because of the multitude, for his stature was small.
LUK 19:4 And having run in front, he ascended up a wild fig-tree, that he should behold him; for by that place he was about to go.
LUK 19:5 And as he came unto the place, having looked up, Jesus beheld him, and said to him, Zacchaeus, making haste, come down! For today it is necessary for me to remain in your house.
LUK 19:6 And making haste, he came down, and welcomed him rejoicing.
LUK 19:7 And having seen, all complained, saying that, With a sinful man he enters to rest up.
LUK 19:8 But standing, Zacchaeus said to the Lord, Behold, the half of my possessions, O Lord, I give to the poor; and if to any what I extorted, I will give back quadruple.
LUK 19:9 And Jesus said to him that, Today deliverance took place in this house in so far as he also is a son of Abraham.
LUK 19:10 For the son of man came to seek and to deliver the one being lost.
LUK 19:11 And in their hearing these things, adding he spoke a parable, on account of his being near Jerusalem, and their thinking that immediately the kingdom of God was about to appear.
LUK 19:12 He said then, A certain well-born man went unto a place afar to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
LUK 19:13 And having called ten of his servants, he gave to them ten minas, and said to them, Be engaged in matters until I return.
LUK 19:14 And his citizens detested him, and sent an embassy after him, saying, We do not want this one to reign over us.
LUK 19:15 And it came to pass in his returning back, having received the kingdom, that he spoke for these servants to be called to him, to whom he gave the money, that he should know what business each did.
LUK 19:16 And came the first saying, O master, your minas gained an additional ten minas.
LUK 19:17 And he said to him, Good, O good servant. For in the least you were trustworthy, let there be for you having authority above ten cities!
LUK 19:18 And the second came, saying, O master, Your mina made five minas.
LUK 19:19 And he said also to this one, And you become above five cities.
LUK 19:20 And another came, saying, O master, behold, your mina, which I have is being reserved in a scarf.
LUK 19:21 For I feared you, for you are a stern man - you take up what you rendered not, and you harvest what you sowed not.
LUK 19:22 And he says to him, From out of your mouth I will judge you, O wicked servant. You knew that I am a stern man, taking up what I rendered not, and harvesting what I sowed not.
LUK 19:23 And therefore why did you not give my money unto the money lenders table, and I having come would have exacted it with interest?
LUK 19:24 And to the ones standing by, he said, Take from him the mina, and give it to the one having ten minas!
LUK 19:25 And they said to him, O master, he has ten minas.
LUK 19:26 For I say to you that, To every one having, it shall be given; but of the one not having, even what he has shall be taken from him.
LUK 19:27 Furthermore, my enemies, those of the ones not wanting me to reign over them, lead them here and butcher them in front of me!
LUK 19:28 And having said these things, he went ahead, ascending unto Jerusalem.
LUK 19:29 And it came to pass as he approached unto Bethphage and Bethany, to the mountain being called Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
LUK 19:30 having said, Go unto the opposite town; in which entering you will find a foal being tied, upon which no one of men at any time sat. Having untied him, lead him!
LUK 19:31 And if anyone asks you, On account of why do you untie? Thus shall you say to him that, His master has need.
LUK 19:32 And going forth, the ones having been sent found it as he said to them.
LUK 19:33 And of their untying the foal, his masters said to them, Why do you untie the foal?
LUK 19:34 And they said, His master has need.
LUK 19:35 And they led him to Jesus. And having cast their own garments upon the foal, they conducted Jesus.
LUK 19:36 And of his going, they spread their garments in the way.
LUK 19:37 And of his approaching already to the descent of the ount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began rejoicing to praise God with a great voice for all which they beheld of works of power;
LUK 19:38 saying, Blessed be the coming king in the name of the Lord. Reace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
LUK 19:39 And some of the Pharisees from the multitude said to him, Teacher, reproach your disciples!
LUK 19:40 And responding he said to them, I say to you that, If these should keep silent, the stones will have been crying out.
LUK 19:41 And as he approached beholding the city, he wept over it,
LUK 19:42 saying that, If you knew, even you, also indeed in this your day, the things for your peace - but now it was hidden from your eyes.
LUK 19:43 For days shall come upon you, that your enemies shall put a siege mound around you, and shall surround you, and shall constrain you from all sides,
LUK 19:44 and shall dash you and your children with you; and shall not leave among you a stone upon a stone; because you knew not the time of your visitation.
LUK 19:45 And entering into the temple, he began to cast out the ones selling, and buying in it;
LUK 19:46 saying to them, It has been written, My house is a house of prayer. But you made it a cave of robbers.
LUK 19:47 And he was teaching by day in the temple. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking to destroy him, and the foremost of the people.
LUK 19:48 And they did not find what they should do. For the people all depended on hearing him.
LUK 20:1 And it came to pass, in one of those days, of his teaching the people in the temple, and announcing good news, the chief priests and the scribes stood by with the elders,
LUK 20:2 and spoke to him, saying, Tell us! By what kind of authority do you do these things? or who is the one having given to you this authority?
LUK 20:3 And answering he said to them, And I will ask you one word, and you tell to me!
LUK 20:4 The immersion of John, was it from heaven, or from men?
LUK 20:5 And they reckoned to themselves, saying that, If we should say, From heaven; he shall say, Therefore why then did you not believe in him?
LUK 20:6 And if we should say, From men; all the people will completely stone us; for they are persuaded John to be a prophet.
LUK 20:7 And they answered, We do not know from where.
LUK 20:8 And Jesus said to them, Nor do I say to you by what authority I do these things.
LUK 20:9 And he began to speak to the people this parable, A certain man planted a vineyard, and handed it over to growers, and traveled abroad a fit amount of time.
LUK 20:10 And in the season he sent to the growers a servant, that from the fruit of the vineyard they might give to him. But the growers having flayed him, sent him away empty.
LUK 20:11 And he proceeded to send forth another servant. But they having flayed that one also, and dishonoring him, sent him away empty.
LUK 20:12 And he proceeded to send forth a third. But they also having wounded this one, cast him out.
LUK 20:13 And the master of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send forth my son, the beloved - perhaps beholding this one they will show respect.
LUK 20:14 But beholding him, the growers reasoned to themselves, saying, This is the heir. Come, we should kill him, that the inheritance becomes ours.
LUK 20:15 And having cast him outside the vineyard, they killed him. What then shall the master of the vineyard do to them?
LUK 20:16 He shall come and shall destroy those growers, and will give the vineyard to others. And having heard, they said, May it not be.
LUK 20:17 And looking to them, he said, What then is this having been written, The stone which the ones building rejected, this is become for head of the corner?
LUK 20:18 Every one falling upon that stone, shall be fractured in pieces; but whom ever it should fall upon, it will winnow him.
LUK 20:19 And the chief priests and the scribes sought to put hands upon him in that same hour; and they feared. For they knew that he spoke this parable against them.
LUK 20:20 And closely watching, they sent ones lying in wait, pretending themselves to be just ones, that they should take hold of his word, for the delivering him up to the sovereignty and to the authority of the governor.
LUK 20:21 And they questioned him, saying, Teacher, we know that rightly you speak and teach, and do not take face, but in truth you teach the way of God.
LUK 20:22 Is it allowed for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
LUK 20:23 But contemplating their cunning, he said to them, Why do you test me?
LUK 20:24 Display to me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have? And answering they said, Caesar.
LUK 20:25 And he said to them, Give back therefore the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God.
LUK 20:26 And they were not able to take hold of his saying before the people. And marveling over his answer, they were quiet.
LUK 20:27 But coming forward, a certain one of the Sadducees, the ones disputing a resurrection, claiming it not to be; asked him,
LUK 20:28 saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If anyone's brother should die having a wife, and he should die childless, that his brother should take the wife, and should raise up seed to his brother.
LUK 20:29 There were then seven brothers; and the first having taken a wife died childless.
LUK 20:30 And the second took the wife, and he died childless.
LUK 20:31 And the third took her, and likewise also the seven. And they did not leave children, and they died.
LUK 20:32 And afterwards all died and the woman.
LUK 20:33 In then the resurrection, which of them does she become wife? for the seven had her as wife.
LUK 20:34 And answering Jesus said to them, The sons of this age marry, and give in marriage.
LUK 20:35 But the ones being deemed worthy to attain of that eon, and of the resurrection of the ones from the dead, neither marry nor give in marriage.
LUK 20:36 For neither are they able to die any longer. For they are like angels, and they are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
LUK 20:37 But that the dead be raised, even Moses indicated at the bush, as he says, The Lord God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
LUK 20:38 But God is not of the dead, but the living; for all live to him.
LUK 20:39 And answering some of the scribes said, Teacher, well you spoke.
LUK 20:40 And no longer they dared to ask him anything.
LUK 20:41 And he said to them, How do they say the Christ to be the son of David?
LUK 20:42 And he, David says in the book of Psalms, The Lord - the Greek proper name of Diety said. to my Lord, Sit down at my right,
LUK 20:43 until whenever I put your enemies as a footstool for your feet.
LUK 20:44 David then calls him Lord, so how is he his son?
LUK 20:45 And all the people hearing, he said to his disciples,
LUK 20:46 Take heed of the scribes wanting to walk in robes, and being fond of greetings in the markets, and first seats in the synagogues, and first place in the suppers;
LUK 20:47 who devour the houses of the widows, and for an excuse they pray long. These shall receive extra judgment.
LUK 21:1 And looking up, he beheld the rich throwing their gifts into the treasury.
LUK 21:2 And he beheld a certain destitute widow throwing there two leptas.
LUK 21:3 And he said, Truly I say to you that this poor widow threw in more than all.
LUK 21:4 For all these from out of their abundance threw in the gifts for God. But she from out of her deficiency threw all the livelihood which she had.
LUK 21:5 And as some were speaking concerning the temple, that with goodly stones and consecrated offerings it was adorned, he said,
LUK 21:6 These things which you view - there shall come days in which a stone shall not be left upon a stone, which shall not be broken up.
LUK 21:7 And they asked him, saying, Teacher, when then will these things be? and what is the sign whenever these things are about to take place?
LUK 21:8 And he said, Take heed that you should not be misled! For many shall come in my name, saying that, I am he; and the time approaches. You should not then go after them.
LUK 21:9 And whenever you should hear of wars and commotions, you should not be terrified; for it is necessary these things take place first. But not immediately is the end.
LUK 21:10 Then he said to them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
LUK 21:11 Also great earthquakes in places, and there shall be famines and pestilences; also fearful things, and there will be great signs from heaven.
LUK 21:12 But before these things all together, they shall put their hands upon you, and shall persecute you, delivering you up unto synagogues, and prisons, leading you unto kings and governors because of my name.
LUK 21:13 But it shall result to you for a testimony.
LUK 21:14 Then you put it into your hearts, not to meditate beforehand to make a defense!
LUK 21:15 For I shall give to you a mouth and wisdom, in which all the ones being adverse to you will not be able to contradict nor oppose.
LUK 21:16 But you will be delivered up even by parents, and brothers, and relatives, and friends; and they shall put to death some of you.
LUK 21:17 And you will be detested by all on account of my name.
LUK 21:18 But a hair from your head in no way shall perish.
LUK 21:19 By your endurance acquire your life!
LUK 21:20 And whenever you should behold Jerusalem being encircled by encamped armies, then know that her desolation approaches.
LUK 21:21 Then the ones in Judea let flee into the mountains! And the ones in the midst of her let withdraw! And let the ones in the regions not enter into her!
LUK 21:22 For these are days of avenging to fulfill all the things having been written.
LUK 21:23 But woe to the ones having one in the womb, and to the ones nursing in those days. For there will be great distress upon the land, and wrath among this people.
LUK 21:24 And they shall fall by the mouth of the sword, and shall be taken captive into all the nations. And Jerusalem will be for treading by nations until the times of the nations shall be fulfilled.
LUK 21:25 And there shall be signs in the sun, and moon, and stars; and upon the earth conflict of nations, in perplexity of resounding sea and tossing about;
LUK 21:26 men fainting from fear, and expectation of the things coming to the inhabitable world. For the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.
LUK 21:27 And then they shall see the son of man coming in a cloud with power and much glory.
LUK 21:28 But at the beginning of these things coming to pass, let your heads be raised and lifted up; for your release by ransom approaches!
LUK 21:29 And he spoke a parable to them, Look at the fig-tree, and all the trees!
LUK 21:30 Whenever they should burgeon already, seeing it yourselves, you know that already the summer is near!
LUK 21:31 Thus also you, whenever you should see these things taking place, know that the kingdom of God is near!
LUK 21:32 Amen I say to you that, In no way shall this generation pass away, until whenever all shall take place.
LUK 21:33 The heaven and the earth shall pass away; but my words in no way shall pass away.
LUK 21:34 But take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts should be weighed down in dizziness, and intoxication, and anxieties of life, and that day suddenly should stand upon you!
LUK 21:35 For as a snare it shall come upon all the ones being settled upon the face of all the earth.
LUK 21:36 Be awake then at every season! beseeching, that you should be deemed worthy to flee from all the things being about to take place, and to stand before the son of man.
LUK 21:37 And he was by days in the temple teaching; and by nights coming forth to lodge in the mountain being called Olives.
LUK 21:38 And all the people rose early to him in the temple, to hear him.
LUK 22:1 And the holiday of the unleavened breads approached, the one being called passover.
LUK 22:2 And the chief priests and the scribes sought the means of how to do away with him; for they feared the people.
LUK 22:3 And Satan entered into Judas being called Iscariot, being from the number of the twelve.
LUK 22:4 And having gone forth, he conversed together with the chief priests and the commandants, the thing of how he should deliver him up to them.
LUK 22:5 And they rejoiced, and agreed to give money to him.
LUK 22:6 And he acknowledged, and sought an opportune time to deliver him up to them separate from the multitude.
LUK 22:7 And came the day of the unleavened breads, in which it is necessary to sacrifice the passover.
LUK 22:8 And he sent Peter and John, having said, Having gone prepare for us the passover, that we should eat!
LUK 22:9 And they said to him, Where do you want we shall prepare?
LUK 22:10 And he said to them, Behold, of your entering into the city, a man bearing a clay vessel of water will meet you; follow him into the house of which he enters.
LUK 22:11 And you shall say to the master of the house, The teacher says to you, Where is the lodging where I should eat the passover with my disciples?
LUK 22:12 And that one will show to you a great upper room being spread out - there prepare!
LUK 22:13 And having gone forth, they found as he said to them. And they prepared the passover.
LUK 22:14 And when it became the hour, he reclined, and the twelve apostles with him.
LUK 22:15 And he said to them, With desire I desired to eat this passover with you before my suffering.
LUK 22:16 For I say to you that, No longer in any way shall I eat of it, until whenever it should be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
LUK 22:17 And having received a cup, having given thanks, he said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves!
LUK 22:18 For I say to you, that in no way shall I drink from the produce of the grapevine, until whenever the kingdom of God should come.
LUK 22:19 And having taken the bread, having given thanks, he broke, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body being given for you. This do in my remembrance!
LUK 22:20 Likewise also the cup after having supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, the one being poured out for you.
LUK 22:21 Furthermore, behold, the hand of the one delivering me up is with me at the table.
LUK 22:22 And indeed the son of man goes as having been confirmed; except woe to that man by whom he is delivered up.
LUK 22:23 And they began to debate with themselves who then it may be of them about to do this.
LUK 22:24 And there became also a rivalry among them, which of them seems to be greater.
LUK 22:25 And he said to them, The kings of the nations dominate them; and the ones exercising authority over them are called benefactors.
LUK 22:26 But among you not so. But the greater among you, let him be as the younger; and the one leading, as the one serving!
LUK 22:27 For which is greater, the one reclining or the one serving? is it not the one reclining? but I am in the midst of you as the one serving.
LUK 22:28 But you are the ones abiding with me in my tests.
LUK 22:29 And I ordain to you, as my father ordained to me a kingdom;
LUK 22:30 that you should eat and should drink at my table in my kingdom; and you shall sit upon thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
LUK 22:31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to sift you all as grain,
LUK 22:32 but I beseeched concerning you, that the belief of yours should not fail, and you at some time or other having returned, support your brothers!
LUK 22:33 And he said to him, O Lord, with you I am prepared even to go unto prison and unto death.
LUK 22:34 And he said, I say to you, Peter, in no way shall the rooster call out today, before three times you should totally reject me, to not know me.
LUK 22:35 And he said to them, When I sent you separate of money bag, and provision bag, and sandals, did you lack anything? And they said, Nothing.
LUK 22:36 He said then to them, But now the one having a money bag, take it, and in like manner also the provision bag! And the one not having a sword shall sell his cloak and shall buy a sword!
LUK 22:37 For I say to you that, Yet this thing having been written must be finished by me, the thing saying, And with the lawless ones he was imputed. For also the things about me have an end.
LUK 22:38 And they said, O Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough.
LUK 22:39 And going forth, he went according to custom unto the mount of the olives; and his disciples followed him also.
LUK 22:40 And being at the place, he said to them, Pray to not enter into a test!
LUK 22:41 And he drew away from them about a stone shot, and setting his knees, he prayed,
LUK 22:42 saying, O father, if you will to carry away this cup from me - except not my will, but yours be.
LUK 22:43 And there appeared to him an angel from heaven strengthening him.
LUK 22:44 And being in agony more intensely he prayed. And his sweat became as clots of blood going down upon the ground.
LUK 22:45 And having risen up from the prayer, coming to his disciples, he found them sleeping from the distress.
LUK 22:46 And he said to them, Why do you sleep? Having risen up, pray! that you should not enter into a test.
LUK 22:47 And yet of his speaking, behold a multitude, and the one being called Judas, one of the twelve, was coming before them, and he approached to Jesus to kiss him.
LUK 22:48 Jesus said to him, Judas, do you deliver up the son of man with a kiss?
LUK 22:49 And the ones being around him beholding, said to him, O Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
LUK 22:50 And one struck a certain one from them, the servant of the chief priest, and removed his right ear.
LUK 22:51 And responding Jesus said, Allow unto this! And having touched his ear, he healed him.
LUK 22:52 And Jesus said to the ones coming unto him - the chief priests, and commandants of the temple, and elders, As against a robber do you come forth with swords and wood spears?
LUK 22:53 By day my being with you in the temple, you did not stretch out hands against me. But this is your hour, and the authority of darkness.
LUK 22:54 And having seized him, they led and brought him into the house of the chief priest. And Peter followed far off.
LUK 22:55 And having lit a fire in the midst of the courtyard, and of their having sat down, Peter sat in the midst of them.
LUK 22:56 And a certain maidservant beholding him sitting down by the light, and having gazed upon him, said, Even this one was with him.
LUK 22:57 But he denied him, saying, O woman, I do not know him.
LUK 22:58 And after a little, another beholding him, said, And you are of them. And Peter said, O man, I am not.
LUK 22:59 And about an hour having elapsed, another certain one contended obstinately, saying, In truth also this one was with him; for also he is a Galilean.
LUK 22:60 And Peter said, O man, I do not know what you say. And immediately while he was still speaking a rooster called out.
LUK 22:61 And having turned, the Lord looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, as he said to him that, Before the rooster calls out, you shall totally reject me three times.
LUK 22:62 And having gone forth outside Peter wept bitterly.
LUK 22:63 And the men holding Jesus mocked him, flaying him.
LUK 22:64 And having covered him up, they beat his face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy! Who is the one hitting you?
LUK 22:65 And many other things blaspheming they said to him.
LUK 22:66 And as it became day, there gathered together the council of elders of the people - chief priests and scribes, and they led him into their sanhedrin, saying,
LUK 22:67 If you are the Christ, tell to us! And he said to them, If I should tell to you, in no way should you believe.
LUK 22:68 And if also I asked, in no way should you answer me, or loose me.
LUK 22:69 From the present the son of man will be sitting down at the right of the power of God.
LUK 22:70 And all said, Then you are the son of God? And he said to them, You say it, for I am.
LUK 22:71 And they said, What still need do we have of a witness? For we ourselves heard from his mouth.
LUK 23:1 And having risen up, all the multitude of them led him unto Pilate.
LUK 23:2 And they began to charge him saying, This one we find perverting the nation, and preventing tribute to be given to Caesar, saying himself to be Christ the king.
LUK 23:3 And Pilate asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And answering to him he said, You say it.
LUK 23:4 And Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, Not one fault do I find in this man.
LUK 23:5 And they grew more urgent and violent, saying that, He incites the people, teaching throughout entire Judea, beginning from Galilee unto here.
LUK 23:6 And Pilate having heard Galilee, asked if the man is a Galilean.
LUK 23:7 And having realized that he is under the authority of Herod, he sent him to Herod, he being also in Jerusalem in these days.
LUK 23:8 And Herod beholding Jesus, rejoiced exceedingly. For he was wanting for a fit time to behold him, because of the hearing many things concerning him; and he hoped to behold any sign by him taking place.
LUK 23:9 And he asked him with a fit amount of words; but he answered to him nothing.
LUK 23:10 And standing by were the chief priests and the scribes intensely charging him.
LUK 23:11 And Herod with his military having treated him with contempt, and having mocked him, having put around him bright attire, sent him back to Pilate.
LUK 23:12 And they became friends, both Pilate and Herod, in this day with one another. For beforehand they were being at enmity between themselves.
LUK 23:13 And Pilate, having called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
LUK 23:14 said to them, You brought to me this man as perverting the people. And behold, I, before you having questioned him, find nothing in this man for a fault of which to lay charge against him.
LUK 23:15 And not even Herod. For I sent you to him; and behold, nothing worthy of death is being acted by him.
LUK 23:16 Correcting him then, I will release him.
LUK 23:17 (And by necessity he had to release to them each holiday one person.)
LUK 23:18 But they shouted aloud all at once, saying, Take this one, but release to us Barabbas.
LUK 23:19 (Who was on account of a certain insurrection having taken place in the city, and for murder, thrown into prison.)
LUK 23:20 Then again, Pilate called out to them, wanting to release Jesus.
LUK 23:21 But they were sounding out, saying, Crucify! Crucify him!
LUK 23:22 And the third time he said to them, For what evil did this one do? No fault for death do I find in him. Correcting him then, I will release him.
LUK 23:23 And they pressed with great voices, asking for him to be crucified. And their voices prevailed and of the chief priests.
LUK 23:24 And Pilate adjudged their request to take place.
LUK 23:25 And he released to them the one through insurrection and murder being thrown into the prison, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will.
LUK 23:26 And as they led him away, having taken hold of Simon, a certain Cyrenian, coming from the field, they placed upon him the cross, to bear it behind Jesus.
LUK 23:27 And were following him a great multitude of the people, and women, which also were beating their chest and wailing over him.
LUK 23:28 And having turned to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me! Furthermore, weep for yourselves, and for your children!
LUK 23:29 For behold, days come in which they shall say, Blessed are the sterile, and bellies which bore not, and breasts which nursed not.
LUK 23:30 Then they shall begin to say to the mountains, Fall upon us! And to the hills, Cover us!
LUK 23:31 For if in the wet wood these things they do, what should happen in the dry?
LUK 23:32 And they led also other two evildoers with him to be done away with.
LUK 23:33 And when they went forth unto the place being called Skull, there they crucified him, and the evildoers, one on the right, and one on the left.
LUK 23:34 And Jesus said, O Father, forgive them! for they do not know what they do. And dividing his garments they cast a lot.
LUK 23:35 And the people stood viewing. And deriding also were the rulers with them, saying, Others he delivered; let him deliver himself, if this is the Christ, the one chosen of God!
LUK 23:36 And the soldiers also mocked at him, coming forward, and bringing vinegar to him,
LUK 23:37 and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself!
LUK 23:38 And there was also an inscription being depicted above him in letters in Greek, and Roman, and Hebrew - This is the king of the Jews.
LUK 23:39 And one of the hanging evildoers blasphemed him, saying, If you are the Christ, save yourself and us!
LUK 23:40 And responding the other reproached him, saying, Not even do you fear God, for you are under the same judgment?
LUK 23:41 And we indeed justly; for worthy of what we acted, we receive; but this one did not act out of place.
LUK 23:42 And he said to Jesus, Remember me, O Lord, whenever you should come in to your kingdom.
LUK 23:43 And Jesus said to him, Amen I say to you, Today with me you will be in paradise.
LUK 23:44 And it was about the sixth hour, and darkness came upon the entire land until the ninth hour.
LUK 23:45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was split in the middle.
LUK 23:46 And calling out with a great voice, Jesus said, Father, into your hands I place my spirit. And these things having said, he expired.
LUK 23:47 And the centurion beholding the thing taking place, glorified God, saying, Really, this man was just.
LUK 23:48 And all the multitudes coming together upon this sight, viewing the things having taken place, were beating themselves on the breast returning.
LUK 23:49 And all the ones who knew him stood afar off, even the women following him from Galilee, seeing these things.
LUK 23:50 And behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counselor, being a good man, and just,
LUK 23:51 (this one was not assenting together with the counsel and their action,) from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who even was waiting also himself the kingdom of God.
LUK 23:52 This one came forward to Pilate, to ask the body of Jesus.
LUK 23:53 And having lowered it, he swathed it in fine linen, and put it in a tomb of dressed stone, of which not was not yet any one being laid.
LUK 23:54 And it was preparation day, and sabbath evening coming on.
LUK 23:55 But following closely after also were women, (the ones who were gathered together to him from out of Galilee,) for seeing the sepulchre, and how his body was placed.
LUK 23:56 And having returned, they prepared aromatics and perfumed liquids; and on the sabbath they were tranquil according to the commandment.
LUK 24:1 And day one of the sabbaths, at deep dawn, they came unto the tomb, bringing aromatics which they prepared, and some others with them.
LUK 24:2 And they found the stone having been rolled away from the sepulcher.
LUK 24:3 And having entered, they found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
LUK 24:4 And it came to pass, in their being perplexed on account of this, that behold, two men stood by them in attire flashing lightning.
LUK 24:5 And of their being thrown into fear, and leaning the face unto the ground, they said to them, Why do you seek the living with the dead?
LUK 24:6 He is not here, but arisen. Remember as he spoke to you still being in Galilee!
LUK 24:7 Saying that, It is necessary the son of man to be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and to be crucified, and on the third day to rise up.
LUK 24:8 And they remembered his sayings.
LUK 24:9 And they returned from the sepulchre, to report all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest.
LUK 24:10 And they were the Magdalene - Mary, and Joanna, and Mary of James, and the rest with them who spoke to the apostles these things.
LUK 24:11 And their words appeared before them as nonsense, and they disbelieved them.
LUK 24:12 But Peter, having risen up, ran unto the sepulchre; and having leaned over, he sees the linen bands being situated alone; and he went forth to his own place wondering at the thing having taken place.
LUK 24:13 And behold, two of them were going on the same day unto a town at a distance of sixty stadiums from Jerusalem - the name is Emmaus.
LUK 24:14 And they were consorting with one another concerning all these things coming to pass.
LUK 24:15 And it happened during their consorting and debating, that Jesus himself having approached, went with them.
LUK 24:16 And their eyes were kept to not recognize him.
LUK 24:17 And he said to them, What words are these which you argue with one another while walking, and are looking downcast?
LUK 24:18 And answering, the one whose name was Cleopas, said to him, You alone sojourn in Jerusalem, and know not the things taking place in it in these days?
LUK 24:19 And he said to them, What kind? And they said to him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a man, a prophet, mighty in work and word before God and all the people.
LUK 24:20 And how that the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up unto the judgment of death, and they crucified him.
LUK 24:21 But we were hoping that he is the one about to ransom Israel. But indeed with all these things, today leads in this third day, from which time these things took place.
LUK 24:22 But also certain women from us amazed us, happening early unto the sepulchre;
LUK 24:23 and not having found his body, they came saying also to have seen an apparition of angels, who say him to be living.
LUK 24:24 And some of the ones with us went forth unto the sepulchre, and found it so as also the women said. But him we saw not.
LUK 24:25 And he said to them, O unthinking ones, and slow in the heart to trust upon all which the prophets spoke.
LUK 24:26 Is it not necessary the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory?
LUK 24:27 And beginning from Moses, and from all of the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
LUK 24:28 And they approached unto the town where they were going. And he pretended to be going further.
LUK 24:29 And they pressured him, saying, Stay with us; for it is towards evening, and the day has declined. And he entered to stay with them.
LUK 24:30 And it came to pass, in his lying down to eat with them, having taken the bread, he blessed, and having broken gave it over to them.
LUK 24:31 And their eyes were opened wide, and they recognized him; and he became invisible to them.
LUK 24:32 And they said to one another, Was not our heart burning in us as he was speaking to us in the way, and as he opened wide to us the scriptures?
LUK 24:33 And rising up the same hour, they returned into Jerusalem, and they found the eleven being gathered together, and the ones with them,
LUK 24:34 saying that, The Lord is risen really, and he appeared to Simon.
LUK 24:35 And they described the things in the way, and how he was made known to them in the breaking of the bread.
LUK 24:36 And of their speaking these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and says to them, Peace to you.
LUK 24:37 And being terrified, and becoming thrown into fear, they thought they viewed a spirit.
LUK 24:38 And he said to them, Why are you disturbed? and why do thoughts ascend into your hearts?
LUK 24:39 Behold my hands and my feet, that I am he! Handle me and see! For a spirit has not flesh and bones, as you view me having.
LUK 24:40 And this having said, he displayed to them his hands and his feet.
LUK 24:41 And yet of their disbelieving from the joy, and marveling, he said to them, Have you anything eatable here?
LUK 24:42 And they gave over to him part of a roasted fish, and some from a bee's honeycomb.
LUK 24:43 And having taken before them, he ate.
LUK 24:44 And he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while still being with you, that it is necessary to fulfill all the things being written in the law of Moses, and the prophets, and the Psalms, concerning me.
LUK 24:45 Then he opened wide their mind to perceive the scriptures.
LUK 24:46 And he said to them that, Thus it has been written, and thus it is necessary for the Christ to suffer, and to be raised up from the dead in the third day;
LUK 24:47 and repentance and release of sins to be proclaimed in his name unto all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
LUK 24:48 And you are witnesses of these things.
LUK 24:49 And behold, I send the promise of my father unto you. But you stay in the city of Jerusalem, until of which time you shall be clothed with power from out of the height!
LUK 24:50 And he led them outside as far as unto Bethany. And having lifted up his hands, he blessed them.
LUK 24:51 And it came to pass, in his blessing them, he was parted from them, and was borne into the heaven.
LUK 24:52 And they having done obeisance to him, returned unto Jerusalem with great joy.
LUK 24:53 And they were always in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.
JOH 1:1 In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God.
JOH 1:2 This one was in the beginning with God.
JOH 1:3 All through him existed; and apart from him not even one thing existed which exists.
JOH 1:4 In him was life; and the life was the light of men.
JOH 1:5 And the light appears in the darkness; and the darkness overtook it not.
JOH 1:6 There existed a man being sent by God - the name to him was John.
JOH 1:7 This one came for a witness, that he should witness concerning the light, that all should believe through him.
JOH 1:8 That one was not the light, but that he should witness concerning the light.
JOH 1:9 The true light was which enlightens every man coming into the world.
JOH 1:10 He was in the world, and the world by him existed, and the world knew him not.
JOH 1:11 Unto his own he came, and his own received him not.
JOH 1:12 But as many as received him, he gave to them authority to become children of God, to the ones believing in his name;
JOH 1:13 the ones who not from blood, nor from will of flesh, nor from will of man, but from God were born.
JOH 1:14 And the word became flesh, and tented among us. And we saw his glory - glory as an only child of the father, full of favor and truth.
JOH 1:15 John witnessed concerning him, and cried out, saying, This was whom I said, The one coming after me was before me; for he was foremost over me.
JOH 1:16 And from out of his fullness we all received, even favor upon favor.
JOH 1:17 For the law was given through Moses - the favor and the truth came through Jesus Christ.
JOH 1:18 No one has seen God at any time; the only born son, the one being in the bosom of the father, that one described him.
JOH 1:19 And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent from Jerusalem priests and Levites, that they should ask him, Who are you?
JOH 1:20 And he acknowledged, and denied not; and acknowledged that, I am not the Christ.
JOH 1:21 And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he says, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No.
JOH 1:22 They said then to him, Who are you? that an answer we should give to the ones having sent us. What say you concerning yourself?
JOH 1:23 He said, I am a voice yelling in the wilderness, Straighten the way of the LORD! as said Isaiah the prophet.
JOH 1:24 And the ones being sent were of the Pharisees.
JOH 1:25 And they asked him, and said to him, Why then do you immerse, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?
JOH 1:26 John answered to them, saying, I immerse in water. But in the midst of you stands, whom you know not.
JOH 1:27 He is the one coming after me, who exists before me, of whom I am not worthy that I should untie his strap of the sandal.
JOH 1:28 These things took place in Bethania on the other side of the Jordan, where John was immersing.
JOH 1:29 The next day John sees Jesus coming to him, and says, See the lamb of God, the one carrying the sin of the world!
JOH 1:30 This is concerning of whom I said, After me comes a man who was before me; for he was foremost over me.
JOH 1:31 And I did not know him. But that he should be made manifest to Israel - on account of this I came in the water immersing.
JOH 1:32 And John witnessed, saying that, I viewed the spirit descending as a dove from out of heaven, and it remained upon him.
JOH 1:33 And I did not know him. But the one having sent me forth to immerse in water, that one said to me, Upon whom ever you should behold the spirit descending, and remaining upon him, he is the one immersing by holy spirit.
JOH 1:34 And I have seen, and I have witnessed that this is the son of God.
JOH 1:35 The next day again John stood, and two of his disciples.
JOH 1:36 And looking at Jesus walking, he says, Behold the lamb of God!
JOH 1:37 And the two disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus.
JOH 1:38 And Jesus having turned, and viewing them following, says to them, What do you seek? And they said to him, (Rabbi, which is to say, being translated, Teacher,) where do you stay?
JOH 1:39 He says to them, Come and see! They came and saw where he stayed, and stayed with him that day. And the hour was about the tenth.
JOH 1:40 Andrew the brother of Simon Peter was one of the two of the ones having heard from John, and having followed him.
JOH 1:41 He first finds his own brother Simon, and says to him, We have found the Messiah, which is being translated, Christ.
JOH 1:42 And he led him to Jesus. And looking at him, Jesus said, You are Simon the son of Jonah, you shall be called Cephas, which is translated, A piece of rock. Peter.
JOH 1:43 The next day he wanted to go forth into Galilee, and he finds Philip, and Jesus says to him, Follow me!
JOH 1:44 And Philip was from Bethsaida, from out of the city of Andrew and Peter.
JOH 1:45 Philip finds Nathanael, and says to him, The one whom Moses wrote in the law, and the prophets, we have found - Jesus the son of Joseph from Nazareth.
JOH 1:46 And Nathanael said to him, Is anything good able to be from out of Nazareth? Philip says to him, Come and see!
JOH 1:47 Jesus beheld Nathanael coming to him, and says concerning him, See! Truly an Israelite, in whom there is not deceit.
JOH 1:48 Nathanael says to him, From what place do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip calling you, being under the fig-tree, I beheld you.
JOH 1:49 Nathanael responded and says to him, Rabbi, you are the son of God; you are the king of Israel.
JOH 1:50 Jesus responded and said to him, Because I said to you, I beheld you underneath the fig-tree, you believe? greater of these you shall see.
JOH 1:51 And he says to him, Amen, amen, I say to you, From now on you shall see the heaven opening, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the son of man.
JOH 2:1 And in the third day a wedding took place in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there.
JOH 2:2 And were invited also Jesus and his disciples, unto the wedding.
JOH 2:3 And lacking wine, the mother of Jesus says to him, They do not have wine.
JOH 2:4 Jesus says to her, What is it to me and to you, O woman? my hour is not yet come.
JOH 2:5 Says his mother to the servants, What ever he should say to you, you do it!
JOH 2:6 And there were there six stone water-pitchers, being situated for the cleansing of the Jews, having capacity of up to two or three measures.
JOH 2:7 Jesus says to them, Fill the water-pitchers with water! And they filled them unto upward.
JOH 2:8 And he says to them, Draw out now, and bring it to the chief attendant! And they brought.
JOH 2:9 And as the chief attendant tasted the water becoming wine, and knew not from where it is; (but the servants knew, the ones drawing the water;) the chief attendant calls the groom,
JOH 2:10 and says to him, Every man places the good wine first, and whenever they should be intoxicated, then the lesser; you have kept the good wine until just now.
JOH 2:11 This the beginning of the signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed in him.
JOH 2:12 After this he went down into Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brothers, and his disciples. And there they stayed not many days.
JOH 2:13 And the passover of the was Jews near, and Jesus ascended unto Jerusalem.
JOH 2:14 And he found in the temple the ones selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the money-changers sitting down.
JOH 2:15 And having made a scourge out of rough cords, he cast out all from the temple - both the sheep, and the oxen. And of the money-changers, he poured out the brass coins, and the tables he overturned.
JOH 2:16 And to the ones selling the doves he said, Take these from here! Do not make the house of my father a house of a market-place!
JOH 2:17 And his disciples remembered that it is being written, The zeal of your house devoured me.
JOH 2:18 The Jews responded then, and said to him, What sign do you show to us that these things you do?
JOH 2:19 Jesus answered and said to them, Loosen this temple, and in three days I will raise it!
JOH 2:20 The Jews then said, Forty and six years it took to build this temple, and you in three days will raise it?
JOH 2:21 But that one spoke concerning the temple of his body.
JOH 2:22 When then he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that this he said to them; and they believed in the scripture, and in the word which Jesus spoke.
JOH 2:23 And as he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the holiday feast, many believed in his name, viewing his signs which he did.
JOH 2:24 But Jesus himself did not entrust himself to them, on account of his knowing all,
JOH 2:25 and that he had not a need that any should witness concerning man; for he knew what was in man.
JOH 3:1 And there was a man of the Pharisees, Nicodemus was the name to him, a ruler of the Jews.
JOH 3:2 This one came to Jesus by night, and said to him, Rabbi, we know that from God you have come as a teacher; for no one is able to do these signs which you do, unless God should be with him.
JOH 3:3 Jesus responded and said to him, Amen, amen, I say to you, Unless one should be born from above, he is not able to behold the kingdom of God.
JOH 3:4 Nicodemus says to him, How is a man able to be born being aged? Is he able to enter into the belly of his mother a second time, and be born?
JOH 3:5 Jesus answered, Amen, amen, I say to you, Unless one should be born of water and spirit, he is not able to enter into the kingdom of God.
JOH 3:6 The one being born of the flesh is flesh; and the one being born of the spirit is spirit.
JOH 3:7 You should not wonder that I said to you, It is necessary for you to be born from above.
JOH 3:8 The wind blows where it wants, and its sound you hear, but you know not from what place it comes, and where it goes. So is every one being born of the spirit.
JOH 3:9 Nicodemus answered and said to him, How is it possible for these things to be?
JOH 3:10 Jesus answered and said to him, You are the teacher of Israel, and these things you know not?
JOH 3:11 Amen, amen, I say to you that, What we know we speak, and what we have seen we witness; and our witness you do not receive.
JOH 3:12 If the earthly things I told to you, and you believe not, how then will you believe if I should speak to you the heavenly things?
JOH 3:13 And no one has ascended into the heaven, except the one descending from out of the heaven - the son of man being in the heaven.
JOH 3:14 And as Moses raised up high the serpent in the wilderness, so is it necessary the son of man be raised up high.
JOH 3:15 That every one believing in him should not perish, but have eternal life..
JOH 3:16 For thus God loved the world, so that he gave his only born son, that every one believing in him should not perish, but should have eternal life.
JOH 3:17 For God did not send his son into the world that he should judge the world; but that the world should be delivered by him.
JOH 3:18 The one believing in him is not judged; but the one not believing already has been judged, for he believes not in the name of the only born son of God.
JOH 3:19 And this is the judgment - that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness more than the light, for their works were evil.
JOH 3:20 For every one acting heedlessly detests the light, and does not come to the light, that his works should not be reproved.
JOH 3:21 But the one observing the truth comes to the light, that his works should be made manifest, that in God they are working.
JOH 3:22 After these things Jesus came and his disciples into the Judean land; and there he spent time with them, and was immersing.
JOH 3:23 And also John was immersing in Aenon near Salim, for there was much water there. And they were arriving and being immersed.
JOH 3:24 For not yet was John thrown into the prison.
JOH 3:25 Became then an inquiry from the disciples of John with the Jews concerning cleansing.
JOH 3:26 And they came to John, and said to him, Rabbi, the one who was with you on the other side of the Jordan, in whom you witnessed - see, this one immerses, and all come to him!
JOH 3:27 John answered and said, Man is not able to receive anything, unless it should be given to him from the heaven.
JOH 3:28 You yourselves witness to me, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am one being sent before that one.
JOH 3:29 The one having the bride is the groom. And the friend of the groom, standing and hearing him, with joy rejoices because of the voice of the groom. This then my joy is fulfilled.
JOH 3:30 That one must grow, but me to lessen.
JOH 3:31 The one coming from above is above all. The one being from the earth, is from out of the earth, and from out of the earth he speaks. The one coming from out of the heaven is above all.
JOH 3:32 And what he has seen and heard, this one witnesses; and his witness no one receives.
JOH 3:33 The one receiving of his witness set a seal that God is true.
JOH 3:34 For the one whom God sent speaks the sayings of God. For not by measure does God give the spirit.
JOH 3:35 The father loves the son, and all things he has put in his hand.
JOH 3:36 The one believing in the son has eternal life. But the one resisting the son shall not see life; but the anger of God remains upon him.
JOH 4:1 When therefore the Lord - Jesus knew. that the Pharisees heard that Jesus made and immersed more disciples than John,
JOH 4:2 (though indeed Jesus himself did not immerse, but his disciples,)
JOH 4:3 he left Judea, and went forth into Galilee.
JOH 4:4 But it was necessary for him to go through Samaria.
JOH 4:5 He comes then into a city of Samaria, being called Sychar, neighboring the place which Jacob gave to Joseph his son.
JOH 4:6 And the spring of Jacob was there. Then Jesus, being tired from the journey, sat thus at the spring - it was about the sixth hour.
JOH 4:7 There comes a woman from out of Samaria to draw water. Jesus says to her, Give to me to drink!
JOH 4:8 (For his disciples went forth into the city that they should buy provisions.)
JOH 4:9 Then the Samaritan woman says to him, How do you, being a Jew, ask from me to drink, being a Samaritan woman? For Jews do not have dealings with Samaritans.
JOH 4:10 Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who is the one saying to you, Give to me to drink! you would have asked him, and he would have given to you living water.
JOH 4:11 The woman says to him, O master, neither a bucket do you have, and the well is deep; from what place then have you the living water?
JOH 4:12 Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave to us the well, and himself drank from it, and his sons, and his livestock?
JOH 4:13 Jesus answered and said to her, Every one drinking of this water thirsts again.
JOH 4:14 But whoever should drink of the water which I give to him, in no way should he thirst into the eon; but the water which I shall give to him shall become in him a spring of water leaping up into eternal life.
JOH 4:15 Says to him the woman, O master, give to me this water, that I should not thirst, nor should come here to draw!
JOH 4:16 Jesus says to her, Go, call your husband, and come here!
JOH 4:17 The woman answered and said, I do not have a husband. Jesus says to her, Well you said that, I do not have a husband.
JOH 4:18 For you had five husbands; and now the one whom you have is not your husband; this truly you have said.
JOH 4:19 The woman says to him, O master, I view that you are a prophet.
JOH 4:20 Our fathers did obeisance in this mountain; and you say that in Jerusalem is the place where it is necessary to do obeisance.
JOH 4:21 Jesus says to her, O woman, trust me, that there comes an hour, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, shall you do obeisance to the father.
JOH 4:22 You do obeisance to whom you know not. We do obeisance to whom we know; for deliverance is from out of the Jews.
JOH 4:23 But comes the hour, and now is, when the true ones doing obeisance shall do obeisance to the father in spirit and truth. For also the father seeks such to do obeisance to him.
JOH 4:24 God is spirit. And the ones doing obeisance to him must do obeisance in spirit and truth.
JOH 4:25 The woman says to him, I know that Messiah comes, the one being called Christ. Whenever he should come, that one will announce to us all things.
JOH 4:26 Jesus says to her, I am he, the one speaking to you.
JOH 4:27 And upon this came his disciples, and they marvelled that he spoke with a woman. No one however said, What do you seek? or, Why do you speak with her?
JOH 4:28 The woman then left her water-pitcher, and went forth into the city, and says to the men,
JOH 4:29 Come, see a man who told to me all things as much as I did! Maybe this is the Christ?
JOH 4:30 They came forth then from out of the city, and came to him.
JOH 4:31 But in between the disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, eat!
JOH 4:32 And he said to them, I have food to eat which you know not.
JOH 4:33 Then the disciples said to one another, Did anyone bring anything to him to eat?
JOH 4:34 Jesus says to them, My food is that I do the will of the one having sent me, and I should perfect his work.
JOH 4:35 Do you not say that, It is still four months, and the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes, and see the places! For they are white for harvest already.
JOH 4:36 And the one harvesting receives a wage, and gathers fruit unto life eternal; that also the one sowing should rejoice together also with the one harvesting.
JOH 4:37 For in this the word is True that, Another is the one sowing, and another is the one harvesting.
JOH 4:38 I sent you to harvest what you have not tired in; others have tired, and you have entered into their toil.
JOH 4:39 And from that city many believed in him of the Samaritans, because of the word of the woman witnessing that, He told to me all things as much as I did.
JOH 4:40 Then as they came to him, the Samaritans asked him to stay with them; and he stayed there two days.
JOH 4:41 And many more believed because of his word;
JOH 4:42 also to the woman they said that, No longer because of your speech do we believe; for ourselves we have heard, and we know that this is truly the deliverer of the world, the Christ.
JOH 4:43 And after the two days he came forth from there, and went forth into Galilee.
JOH 4:44 For Jesus himself testified that, A prophet has not a value in his own fatherland.
JOH 4:45 When then he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things which he did in Jerusalem during the holiday feast; for they also went to the holiday feast.
JOH 4:46 Then came Jesus again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain royal official in Capernaum whose son was weak.
JOH 4:47 He having heard that Jesus is come from out of Judea into Galilee, went forth to him, and asked him that he should come down and heal his son; for he was about to die.
JOH 4:48 Then Jesus said to him, If you should not behold signs and miracles, in no way should you believe.
JOH 4:49 The royal official says to him, O Lord, come down before my child dies!
JOH 4:50 Jesus says to him, Go, your son lives! And the man believed in the word which Jesus said to him, and he went.
JOH 4:51 And already as he was going down, his servants met him, and reported, saying that, Your child lives.
JOH 4:52 He inquired then of them the hour in which he sufficed much better. And they said to him that, Yesterday the seventh hour the fever left him.
JOH 4:53 Then the father knew that it was in that hour in which Jesus said to him that, Your son lives. And he believed him, and his entire family.
JOH 4:54 This again was a second sign Jesus did, coming from out of Judea into Galilee.
JOH 5:1 After these was a holiday of the Jews; and Jesus ascended unto Jerusalem.
JOH 5:2 And there is in Jerusalem at the sheep gate a pool, the one being called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five stoas.
JOH 5:3 In these reclined a great multitude being weak, blind, lame, withered, looking out for the movement of the water.
JOH 5:4 For an angel at times came down in the pool, and disturbed the water. The one then first stepping in after the disturbance of the water became sound in whatsoever disease he was held.
JOH 5:5 And there was a certain man there thirty and eight years being held in his feebleness.
JOH 5:6 Jesus seeing this one reclining, and knowing that already a long time he was held, says to him, Do you want to be sound?
JOH 5:7 The one being invalid Answered to him, O lord, I have not a man, that whenever the water should be disturbed, should lay me in the pool; but in which time I come, another before me descends.
JOH 5:8 Jesus says to him, Arise, lift your litter, and walk!
JOH 5:9 And immediately the man became in health, and lifted his litter, and walked. And it was the sabbath on that day.
JOH 5:10 Then said the Jews to the one being cured, It is a sabbath. It is not allowed for you to carry the litter.
JOH 5:11 He responded to them, saying, The one making me in health, that one told me, Carry your litter, and walk!
JOH 5:12 Then they asked him, Who is the man having said to you, Carry your litter and walk?
JOH 5:13 But the one having been healed knew not who it is; for Jesus turned aside, of a multitude being in the place.
JOH 5:14 After these things Jesus finds him in the temple, and he said to him, See, you are in health; no longer sin, that nothing worse should happen to you!
JOH 5:15 The man went forth, and announced to the Jews that Jesus is the one making him in health.
JOH 5:16 And on account of this the Jews persecuted Jesus, and sought to kill him, for these things he did on a sabbath.
JOH 5:17 But Jesus answered to them, My father works until now, and I work.
JOH 5:18 On account of this then more the Jews sought to kill him, for not only he untied the sabbath, but also called God his own father, making himself equal to God.
JOH 5:19 Then answered Jesus and said to them, Amen, amen, I say to you, The son is not able to do of himself anything, unless what he should see the father doing. For what ever things that one should do, these also the son in like manner does.
JOH 5:20 For the father is fond of the son, and shows to him all things which he does. And greater works than these he will show to him, that you should marvel.
JOH 5:21 For as the father raises the dead, and restores to life; so also the son whom he wants restores to life.
JOH 5:22 For neither the father judges any one, but all judgment he has given to the son;
JOH 5:23 that all should esteem the son, as they esteem the father. The one not esteeming the son esteems not the father sending him.
JOH 5:24 Amen, amen, I say to you that, The one hearing my word, and trusting in the one sending me, has eternal life, and comes not into judgment; but has crossed over from death unto life.
JOH 5:25 Amen, amen, I say to you that, There comes an hour, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the son of God; and the ones hearing shall live.
JOH 5:26 For as the father has life in himself; so he gave also to the son to have life in himself;
JOH 5:27 and gave authority to him even to execute judgment, for he is son of man.
JOH 5:28 Do not wonder at this! for comes an hour, in which all the ones in the tombs shall hear his voice,
JOH 5:29 and shall exit; the ones doing good things unto a resurrection of life; but the ones acting heedlessly, unto a resurrection of judgment.
JOH 5:30 Not am I able to do of myself anything. As I hear, I judge. And my judgment is just; for I seek not my will, but the will of the father sending me forth.
JOH 5:31 If I testify concerning myself, my testimony is not true.
JOH 5:32 There is another testifying concerning me; and I know that the testimony is true which he testifies concerning me.
JOH 5:33 You have sent to John, and he testifies the truth.
JOH 5:34 But I do not receive the testimony from man. And these things I say, that you should be delivered.
JOH 5:35 That one was the lamp burning and shining. And you wanted to exult for an hour in his light.
JOH 5:36 But I have the testimony greater than John. For the works which the father gave me that I should perfect them, the works themselves which I do, testify concerning me, that the father has sent me.
JOH 5:37 And the father sending me forth, he has testified concerning me. Neither his voice have you heard at any time, nor his appearance have you seen.
JOH 5:38 And his word you have not abiding in you. For whom that one sent, this one you do not believe.
JOH 5:39 You search the scriptures; for you think in them to have eternal life. And these are the ones testifying concerning me.
JOH 5:40 And you do not want to come to me, that you should have life.
JOH 5:41 Glory from men I receive not.
JOH 5:42 But I have known you, that the love of God you have not in yourselves.
JOH 5:43 I have come in the name of my father, and you did not receive me. If another should come in his own name, that one you will receive.
JOH 5:44 How are you able to believe, receiving glory from one another, and the glory from the only God you do not seek?
JOH 5:45 Do not think that I accuse you to the father! There is the one accusing you - Moses, in whom you hope.
JOH 5:46 For if you believed Moses, you would have believed in me; for concerning me that one wrote.
JOH 5:47 But if in that one's letters you believe not, how shall you believe in my sayings?
JOH 6:1 After these things Jesus went forth on the other side of the sea of Galilee - the one of Tiberias.
JOH 6:2 And there followed him a great multitude, for they saw his signs which he did for the invalids.
JOH 6:3 And Jesus went up into the mountain, and there sat down with his disciples.
JOH 6:4 And it was near the passover, the holiday of the Jews.
JOH 6:5 Then Jesus having lifted up the eyes, and seeing that a great multitude comes to him, says to Philip, From what place should we buy breads, that these should eat?
JOH 6:6 But this he said testing him, for he knew what he was about to do.
JOH 6:7 Philip answered to him, Of two hundred denarii worth of breads are not sufficient for them, that each of them should receive a little.
JOH 6:8 Says to him one from his disciples, Andrew the brother of Simon Peter,
JOH 6:9 There is one boy here who has five breads of barley, and two little fishes - but these, what are they for so many?
JOH 6:10 And Jesus said, Make the men recline! And there was much grass in the place. Then the men reclined - the number was about five thousand.
JOH 6:11 And Jesus took the breads; and having given thanks he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to the ones reclining; in like manner also of the little fishes as much as they wanted.
JOH 6:12 And as they were filled up, he says to his disciples, Gather together the abounding pieces, that nothing should perish!
JOH 6:13 They gathered together then, and filled twelve hampers of pieces of the five breads of barley, which abounded to the ones having eaten.
JOH 6:14 The men then, having seen what sign Jesus did, said that, This is truly the prophet coming into the world.
JOH 6:15 Jesus then knowing that they were about to come and seize him by force, that they should make him king, again withdrew unto the mountain himself alone.
JOH 6:16 And as it became late, his disciples went down unto the sea.
JOH 6:17 And having stepped into the boat, they went to the other side of the sea unto Capernaum. And darkness already was, and Jesus had not come with them,
JOH 6:18 in which also the sea was awakened by a great wind blowing.
JOH 6:19 Having rowed then about twenty-five stadiums or thirty, they viewed Jesus walking upon the sea, and coming near the boat; and they feared.
JOH 6:20 And he says to them, I am he; fear not!
JOH 6:21 They wanted then to receive him into the boat; and immediately the boat became upon the land into which they were going.
JOH 6:22 The next day, the multitude standing on the other side of the sea, seeing that there was not another boat except one, that one into which his disciples stepped into, and that Jesus entered not together with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples went forth alone,
JOH 6:23 (but other small boats came from Tiberias near the place where they ate the bread, having given thanks to the Lord).
JOH 6:24 when then the multitude saw that Jesus is not there, nor his disciples, they stepped also themselves into the boats, and came unto Capernaum seeking Jesus.
JOH 6:25 And having found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, How have you become here?
JOH 6:26 Jesus answered to them and said, Amen, amen, I say to you, You seek me, not that you saw signs, but that you ate from the breads, and were filled.
JOH 6:27 Work not for the food perishing! but the food abiding unto life eternal, which the son of man will give to you; for this one God the father set seal upon.
JOH 6:28 They said then to him, What should we do that we work the works of God?
JOH 6:29 Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you should have believed in whom that one sent.
JOH 6:30 They said then to him, What sign then do you do, that we should know, and should believe in you? What work do you do?
JOH 6:31 Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, Bread from out of the heaven he gave to them to eat.
JOH 6:32 Jesus then said to them, Amen, amen, I say to you, Moses has not given to you the bread from out of the heaven; but my father gives to you the bread from the heaven - the true.
JOH 6:33 For the bread of God is the one descending from out of the heaven, and giving life to the world.
JOH 6:34 They said then to him, O Master, at all times give to us this bread!
JOH 6:35 And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. The one coming to me in no way should hunger; and the one believing in me in no way should thirst at any time.
JOH 6:36 But I said to you, that even you have seen me, and do not believe.
JOH 6:37 All which the father gives to me shall come to me; and the one coming to me in no way shall I cast outside.
JOH 6:38 For I have descended from the heaven, not that I should do my will, but the will of the one having sent me.
JOH 6:39 And this is the will of the father having sent me, that all which he has given to me I should not lose of it, but should raise it in the last day.
JOH 6:40 And this is the will of the one having sent me, that every one viewing the son, and trusting in him, should have life eternal; and I will raise him up - I in the last day.
JOH 6:41 The Jews were grumbling then concerning him, because he said, I am the bread descending from out of the heaven.
JOH 6:42 And they said, Is this not Jesus the son of Joseph, of whom we know the father and the mother? How then says this one that, From out of the heaven I have descended?
JOH 6:43 Jesus answered then and said to them, Do not grumble with one another!
JOH 6:44 No one is able to come to me, unless the father having sent me should draw him; and I will raise him up in the last day.
JOH 6:45 It is written in the prophets, And they will be all instructed of God. Every one then hearing from the father, and having learned, comes to me.
JOH 6:46 Not that anyone has seen the father, except the one being from God, this one has seen the father.
JOH 6:47 Amen, amen, I say to you, The one believing in me has life eternal.
JOH 6:48 I am the bread of life.
JOH 6:49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and died.
JOH 6:50 This is the bread descending from the heaven, that whoever should eat of it even should not die.
JOH 6:51 I am the living bread having descended from the heaven. If anyone shall eat from this bread, he shall live into the eon. But also the bread which I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world.
JOH 6:52 Then the Jews were quarreling with one another, saying, How will this one be able to give us the flesh to eat?
JOH 6:53 Then Jesus said to them, Amen, amen, I say to you, Unless you should have eaten the flesh of the son of man, and should have drunk of his blood, you shall not have life in yourselves.
JOH 6:54 The one chewing of my flesh, and drinking of my blood, has life eternal; and I will raise him up in the last day.
JOH 6:55 For my flesh truly is solid food, and my blood truly is drink.
JOH 6:56 The one chewing of my flesh, and drinking of my blood, abides in me, and I in him.
JOH 6:57 As the living father sent me, I also live on account of the father; and the one chewing me, that one shall live through me.
JOH 6:58 This is the bread having descended from out of the heaven. Not as your fathers ate the manna, and died. The one chewing this bread shall live into the eon.
JOH 6:59 These things he said in the synagogue teaching in Capernaum.
JOH 6:60 Many then having heard from out of his disciples, said, this word is hard; who is able to hear it?
JOH 6:61 And Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples grumbled concerning this, he said to them, This causes you to stumble?
JOH 6:62 What then if you should view the son of man ascending where he was formerly?
JOH 6:63 The spirit is the one restoring to life, the flesh does not benefit anyone. The sayings which I speak to you is spirit, and is life.
JOH 6:64 But there are of you ones who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who are the ones not believing, and who it is that shall be delivering him up.
JOH 6:65 And he said, On account of this I have said to you, that no one is able to come to me, unless it should be given to him from my father.
JOH 6:66 Because of this, many of his disciples departed to the rear, and no longer walked with him.
JOH 6:67 Then Jesus said to the twelve, Do you also want to go away?
JOH 6:68 Then Simon Peter answered to him, O Lord, to whom shall we go forth? You have the words of eternal life.
JOH 6:69 And we have believed and have known that you are the Christ, the son of the living God.
JOH 6:70 Jesus responded to them, Did I not choose you the twelve, and one of you is a devil?
JOH 6:71 But he spoke of Judas son of Simon Iscariot; for this one was about to deliver him up, being one of the twelve.
JOH 7:1 And Jesus was walking with these in Galilee; for he wanted not to walk in Judea, for the Jews sought to kill him.
JOH 7:2 And it was near the holiday of the Jews - the one of pitching tents.
JOH 7:3 Then his brothers said to him, Cross over from here, and go into Judea, that also your disciples should view your works which you do!
JOH 7:4 For no one does anything in secret, and he himself seeks to be in an open manner. If these things you do, manifest yourself to the world!
JOH 7:5 For neither his brothers believed in him.
JOH 7:6 Then says Jesus to them, My time is not yet at hand; but your time at all times is ready.
JOH 7:7 The world is not able to detest you; but me it detests, for I testify concerning it, that its works are evil.
JOH 7:8 You ascend unto this holiday feast! I not yet ascend unto this holiday feast; for my time has not yet been fulfilled.
JOH 7:9 And these things having said to them, he stayed in Galilee.
JOH 7:10 But as his brothers ascended, then also he ascended unto the holiday feast, not openly, but as in secret.
JOH 7:11 Then the Jews sought him during the holiday feast, and said, Where is that one?
JOH 7:12 And there was much grumbling concerning him among the multitudes. Some said that, He is good. Others said, No; but he misleads the multitude!
JOH 7:13 No one however in an open manner spoke concerning him for fear of the Jews.
JOH 7:14 But already being in the middle of the holiday, Jesus ascended into the temple, and was teaching.
JOH 7:15 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How did this one know letters, not having learned?
JOH 7:16 Jesus answered them, and said, My teaching is not mine, but the one having sent me.
JOH 7:17 If anyone should want to do his will, he shall know concerning the teaching, whether it is of God, or I speak from myself.
JOH 7:18 The one speaking from himself seeks his own glory; but the one seeking the glory of the one having sent him, this one is true, and unrighteousness is not in him.
JOH 7:19 Has not Moses given you the law, and not one of you practices the law? Why do you seek to kill me?
JOH 7:20 The multitude answered and said, You have a demon; who seeks to kill you?
JOH 7:21 Jesus answered and said to them, One work I did, and you all marvel.
JOH 7:22 On account of this Moses has given to you circumcision; (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers;) and on the sabbath you circumcise a man.
JOH 7:23 If a man receives circumcision on the sabbath, that the law of Moses should not be untied, why are you incensed with me that entirely I made a man in health on the sabbath?
JOH 7:24 Judge not according to appearance, but judge the just judgment!
JOH 7:25 Said then some of the ones of Jerusalem, Is this not whom they seek to kill?
JOH 7:26 And see! he speaks in an open manner, and they say nothing to him. Perhaps truly the rulers know that this is truly the Christ.
JOH 7:27 But this we know from what place he is - but the Christ, whenever he should come, no one knows from what place he is.
JOH 7:28 Jesus then cried out in the temple teaching, and saying, And me you have known, and you have known from what place I am. And of myself I have not come, but the one sending me is true, whom you know not.
JOH 7:29 I have known him; for from him I am, and that one sent me.
JOH 7:30 They were seeking then to lay hold of him. And no one put the hand upon him, for his hour had not yet come.
JOH 7:31 But many from out of the multitude believed in him, and said that, The Christ, whenever he should come, will he do more signs than these which this one did?
JOH 7:32 The Pharisees heard of the multitude murmuring these things concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers that they should lay hold of him.
JOH 7:33 Jesus said then to them, Still a little time I am with you, and I go away to the one having sent me.
JOH 7:34 You shall seek me, and shall not find. And where I am, you are not able to come.
JOH 7:35 The Jews said then to themselves, Where is this one about to go, that we shall not find him? Is he about to go unto the dispersion of the Greeks, and to teach the Greeks?
JOH 7:36 What is this word which he said, You shall seek me, and shall not find; and, Where I am, you are not able to come?
JOH 7:37 And during the last day, the great one of the holiday, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone should thirst, come to me and drink!
JOH 7:38 The one believing in me, as the scripture said, From out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.
JOH 7:39 (But this he said concerning the spirit, of which the ones believing in him were about to receive; for there was not yet holy spirit; for Jesus was not yet glorified.)
JOH 7:40 Many then from out of the multitude, hearing the word, said, This is truly the prophet.
JOH 7:41 Others said, This is the Christ. And others said, Does the Christ come from out of Galilee?
JOH 7:42 Said not the scripture that from out of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, of the town where David was from, the Christ comes?
JOH 7:43 A split then among the multitude took place because of him.
JOH 7:44 But some of them wanted to lay hold of him; but no one put hands upon him.
JOH 7:45 Came then the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and those said to them, For why did you not bring him?
JOH 7:46 The officers answered, At no time thus spoke a man as this man.
JOH 7:47 The Pharisees responded then to them, Have you also been misled?
JOH 7:48 Did any of the rulers believe in him, or of the Pharisees?
JOH 7:49 But this multitude not knowing the law are accursed.
JOH 7:50 Nicodemus says to them, (the one coming by night to him, being one of them,)
JOH 7:51 Does our law judge the man, if it not be heard from him prior, and made known what he does?
JOH 7:52 They answered and said to him, Are you also from out of Galilee? Search, and see, that a prophet arises not from out of Galilee!
JOH 7:53 And each went unto his house.
JOH 8:1 And Jesus went to the mount of olives.
JOH 8:2 And at dawn again he came into the temple, and all the people came to him; and having sat he taught them.
JOH 8:3 And the scribes and the Pharisees led to him a woman having been overtaken in adultery. And having stood her in the midst,
JOH 8:4 they say to him, Teacher, this woman we found in the very act committing adultery.
JOH 8:5 And in our law, Moses gave charge for such to be stoned. You then, what do you say?
JOH 8:6 But this they said testing him, that they should have a charge against him. But Jesus bowing low, with the finger he wrote on the ground.
JOH 8:7 And as they continued asking him, having raised the head he said to them, The one sinless of you let him cast the first stone at her!
JOH 8:8 And again bowing low he wrote on the ground.
JOH 8:9 And they having heard, and by their consciences being reproved, went forth one by one, beginning from the older. And Jesus was left behind alone, and the woman being in the middle.
JOH 8:10 And Jesus having raised the head, and seeing no one except the woman, said to her, Woman, where are they, those your accusers? did no one condemn you?
JOH 8:11 And she said, No one, O Lord. And Jesus said to her, Nor I condemn you. Go, and from the present no longer sin!
JOH 8:12 Again then to them Jesus spoke, saying, I am the light of the world. The one following me in no way should walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life.
JOH 8:13 The Pharisees said then to him, You testify concerning yourself; your testimony is not valid.
JOH 8:14 Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify concerning myself, my testimony is valid. For I know from what place I came, and where I go; but you do not know from what place I come, and where I go.
JOH 8:15 You judge according to the flesh; I do not judge anyone.
JOH 8:16 And if I also judge, my judgment is valid; because I am not alone, but I and the father having sent me.
JOH 8:17 And in your law also it has been written that, Of two men the testimony is valid.
JOH 8:18 I am the one testifying concerning myself, and the father having sent me testifies concerning me.
JOH 8:19 They said then to him, Where is your father? Jesus answered, Neither me you know, nor my father. If you would have known me, also you would have known my father.
JOH 8:20 These words Jesus spoke in the treasury, teaching in the temple. And no one laid hold of him, for his hour had not yet come.
JOH 8:21 Then again Jesus said to them, I go away, and you shall seek me, and in your sin you shall die. Where I go, you are not able to come.
JOH 8:22 Then the Jews said, Maybe he will kill himself, that he says, Where I go, you are not able to come.
JOH 8:23 And he said to them, You are of the lowers; I am of the uppers. You are of this world, I am not of this world.
JOH 8:24 I said then to you that, You shall die in your sins. For if you should not believe that I am, you shall die in your sins.
JOH 8:25 They said then to him, You, who are you? And Jesus said to them, The source of whatever also I speak to you.
JOH 8:26 Many things I have to say concerning you, and to judge. But the one having sent me is true, and I, what I heard from him, these things I say unto the world.
JOH 8:27 They knew not that he spoke to them of the father.
JOH 8:28 Jesus said then to them, Whenever you should raise up high the son of man, then you shall know that I am, and from myself I do nothing; but as my father taught me, these things I speak.
JOH 8:29 And the one having sent me is with me. The father left me not alone; for I do the things pleasing to him at all times.
JOH 8:30 These things of his having spoken, many believed in him.
JOH 8:31 then Jesus said to the Jews believing in him, If you should stay in my word, truly you are my disciples;
JOH 8:32 and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall free you.
JOH 8:33 They answered to him, We are seed of Abraham, and to no one have we been a slave to at any time. How do you say that, You shall become free?
JOH 8:34 Jesus answered to them, Amen, amen, I say to you that, Every one committing the sin is a slave of the sin.
JOH 8:35 And the manservant abides not in the house into the eon. The son abides into the eon.
JOH 8:36 If then the son should free you, really you will be free.
JOH 8:37 I know that you are seed of Abraham; but you seek to kill me, for my word does not have space in you.
JOH 8:38 I speak what I have seen by my father. And you then what you have seen by your father you do.
JOH 8:39 They answered and said to him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus says to them, If you were children of Abraham, you would have done the works of Abraham.
JOH 8:40 But now you seek to kill me, a man who has spoken the truth to you, which I heard from God - this Abraham did not do.
JOH 8:41 You do the works of your father. They said then to him, We have not been born of harlotry; we have one father - God.
JOH 8:42 Jesus said to them, If God was your father, you would have loved me; for I came forth from God, and I come; for neither from myself have I come, but that one sent me.
JOH 8:43 Why do you not know my speech? For you are not able to hear my word.
JOH 8:44 You are of the father of the devil, and the desires of your father you want to do. That one was a man-killer from the beginning, and stood not in the truth, for truth is not in him. Whenever he should speak the lie, from out of his own he speaks; for he is a liar, and the father of it.
JOH 8:45 But I, for I speak the truth, but you do not believe me.
JOH 8:46 Who of you reproves me concerning sin? But if I speak truth, why do you not believe in me?
JOH 8:47 The one being of God hears the sayings of God. On account of this, you do not hear, for you are not of God.
JOH 8:48 Then the Jews answered, and said to him, Do we not speak well that you are a Samaritan, and have a demon?
JOH 8:49 Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I esteem my father; and you dishonor me.
JOH 8:50 But I seek not my glory. There is the one seeking and judging.
JOH 8:51 Amen, amen, I say to you, If anyone should give heed to my word in no way shall he view death into the eon.
JOH 8:52 The Jews said then to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and you say, If anyone should give heed to my word in no way shall he taste death into the eon.
JOH 8:53 Are you greater than our father Abraham who died, and the prophets that died? Whom do you make yourself?
JOH 8:54 Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my father glorifying me; whom you say, that he is your God.
JOH 8:55 And you have not known him; but I know him. And if I should say that, I do not know him, I will be like you, a liar. But I know him, and his word I give heed to.
JOH 8:56 Abraham, your father exulted that he should behold my day, and he saw and rejoiced.
JOH 8:57 Then said the Jews to him, You have not yet fifty years, and you have seen Abraham?
JOH 8:58 Jesus said to them, Amen, amen, I say to you, Before Abraham existed, I am.
JOH 8:59 Then they lifted stones that they should throw at him. But Jesus was hidden, and went forth from out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and passed by thus.
JOH 9:1 And passing on, he beheld a man blind from birth.
JOH 9:2 And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, Who sinned, this one or his parents, that he was born blind?
JOH 9:3 Jesus answered, Neither this one sinned, nor his parents. But that should be made manifest the works of God in him.
JOH 9:4 It is necessary to work the works of the one sending me forth, while it is day. There comes the night when no one is able to work.
JOH 9:5 Whenever I should be in the world, I am the light of the world.
JOH 9:6 These things having said, he spat on the ground, and made mud from out of the spittle, and smeared the mud upon the eyes of the blind man.
JOH 9:7 And he said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam! (which is translated, Being sent.) He went forth then and washed, and came seeing.
JOH 9:8 Then the neighbors, and the ones viewing him prior, knowing that he was blind, said, Is not this the one sitting down and begging?
JOH 9:9 Others said that, This one is he. And others that, He is likened to him. That one said that, I am he.
JOH 9:10 They said then to him, How were your eyes opened?
JOH 9:11 That one answered and said, A man being called Jesus made mud, and smeared it upon my eyes, and said to me, Go unto the pool of Siloam, and wash! And going forth and washing, I gained sight.
JOH 9:12 They said then to him, Where is that one? He says, I know not.
JOH 9:13 They led him to the Pharisees - the one at one time blind.
JOH 9:14 And it was a sabbath when Jesus made the mud, and opened his eyes.
JOH 9:15 Then again the Pharisees asked him also how he gained sight. And he said to them, He placed mud to me upon the eyes, and I washed, and I see.
JOH 9:16 Then one from the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he did not heed the sabbath. Others said, How is a man a sinner able to do such signs? And a split was among them.
JOH 9:17 They say then to the blind man again, You, what say you concerning him, for he opened your eyes? And he said that, He is a prophet.
JOH 9:18 The Jews did not believe then concerning him, that he was blind, and gained sight, until whenever his parents spoke up - of the one gaining sight.
JOH 9:19 And they asked them saying, Is this your son, whom you say that he was born blind? How then just now does he see?
JOH 9:20 His parents answered to them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind.
JOH 9:21 But how now he sees, we know not; or who opened his eyes, we know not. He has age; ask him - he shall speak for himself!
JOH 9:22 These things his parents said, for they feared the Jews. For already the Jews agreed, that if anyone should acknowledge him the Christ, he should be removed from the synagogue.
JOH 9:23 On account of this his parents said that, He has age; ask him!
JOH 9:24 They called then for a second time the man who was blind, and said to him, Give glory to God! We know that this man is a sinner.
JOH 9:25 Then that one answered and said, If he is a sinner, I know not. One thing I know, that being blind, now I see.
JOH 9:26 And they said to him again, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?
JOH 9:27 He answered to them, I told you already, and you heard not. Why again do you want to hear? Do also you want to become his disciples?
JOH 9:28 Then they reviled him, and said, You are that one's disciple; but we are disciples of Moses.
JOH 9:29 We know that to Moses God has spoken; but this one, we know not from what place he is.
JOH 9:30 The man answered and said to them, For this is wonderful, that you know not from where he is, and he opened my eyes.
JOH 9:31 And we know that God does not hear sinners. But if anyone might be godly, and should do his will, this one he hears.
JOH 9:32 From out of the eon it was not heard that anyone opened the eyes of one being born blind.
JOH 9:33 Unless this one was from God, he would not be able to do anything.
JOH 9:34 They answered and said to him, In sin you were entirely born, and you teach us? And they cast him outside.
JOH 9:35 Jesus heard that they cast him outside; and having found him, said to him, Do you believe in the son of God?
JOH 9:36 That one answered and said, And who is he, O Lord, that I should believe in him?
JOH 9:37 And Jesus said to him, Both you see him, and the one speaking with you is that one.
JOH 9:38 And he said, I believe, O Lord. And he did obeisance to him.
JOH 9:39 And Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that the ones not seeing shall see; and the ones seeing should become blind.
JOH 9:40 And some of these Pharisees heard, the ones being with him, and said to him, And not we; are we blind?
JOH 9:41 Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would not have sin. But now you say that, We see; therefore your sin remains.
JOH 10:1 Amen, amen, I say to you, The one not entering through the door into the courtyard of the sheep, but ascending from elsewhere, that one is a thief and robber.
JOH 10:2 But the one entering through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
JOH 10:3 To this one the doorkeeper opens. And the sheep hear his voice. And his own sheep he calls by name, and leads them out.
JOH 10:4 And whenever his own sheep should come forth, he goes in front of them, and the sheep follow him; for they know his voice.
JOH 10:5 But a stranger in no way shall they follow, but they shall flee from him; for they know not the stranger's voice.
JOH 10:6 This proverb Jesus spoke to them. But those knew not what it was which he spoke to them.
JOH 10:7 Jesus said then again to them, Amen, amen, I say to you that, I am the door of the sheep.
JOH 10:8 All as many as came are thieves and robbers; but the sheep did not hear them.
JOH 10:9 I am the door. Through me if anyone should enter, he shall be delivered, and shall enter and shall go forth, and shall find pasture.
JOH 10:10 The thief comes not, except that he should steal, and should sacrifice, and should destroy. I came that they should have life, and they should have extra.
JOH 10:11 I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd renders his life for the sheep.
JOH 10:12 But the hireling, and not being the shepherd, whose sheep are not his own, views the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep, and flees. And the wolf seizes them by force, and disperses the sheep.
JOH 10:13 And the hireling flees, for he is a hireling, and there is not a care to him concerning the sheep.
JOH 10:14 I am the good shepherd, and I know the ones mine, and I am known by the ones of mine.
JOH 10:15 As the father knows me, I also know the father. And my life I place for the sheep.
JOH 10:16 And other sheep I have, which are not of this yard. And those it is necessary for me to lead, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one flock, one shepherd.
JOH 10:17 On account of this the father loves me, for I place my life, that again I should take it.
JOH 10:18 No one takes it from me, but I place it of myself. I have authority to place it, and I have authority again to take it. This commandment I received from my father.
JOH 10:19 Then a split again took place among the Jews on account of these words.
JOH 10:20 And many of them said, He has a demon, and is maniacal; why listen to him?
JOH 10:21 Others said, These sayings are not of one being demon-possessed. Is a demon able to open eyes of blind ones?
JOH 10:22 And took place the holiday of rededication in Jerusalem, and it was winter.
JOH 10:23 And Jesus was walking in the temple, in the stoa of Solomon.
JOH 10:24 Then the Jews encircled him, and said to him, For how long do you carry our soul? If you are the Christ, tell us in an open manner!
JOH 10:25 Jesus answered to them, I told to you, and you believe not. The works which I do in the name of my father, these testify concerning me.
JOH 10:26 But you believe not, for you are not of my sheep, as I said to you.
JOH 10:27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
JOH 10:28 And I give to them eternal life, and in no way shall they perish into the eon; and not shall any seize them by force from out of my hand.
JOH 10:29 My father, who has given to me, is greater than of all. And no one is able to seize them by force from out of the hand of my father.
JOH 10:30 I and the father - we are one.
JOH 10:31 Then again the Jews bore stones that they should stone him.
JOH 10:32 Jesus responded to them, Many good works I showed to you from my father; for what work of them do you stone me?
JOH 10:33 The Jews answered to him, saying, Concerning a good work we do not stone you; but concerning blasphemy; and that you, being a man, make yourself God.
JOH 10:34 Jesus responded to them, Is it not written in your law, I said, You are gods?
JOH 10:35 If those he said of gods, to whom the word of God came, and the scripture is not able to be untied,
JOH 10:36 the one whom the father sanctified, and sent into the world, you say that, You blaspheme; for I said, I am the son of God?
JOH 10:37 If I do not the works of my father, do not believe me!
JOH 10:38 But if I do, and if you should not believe me, believe the works! that you should know, and should believe, that the father is in me, and I in him.
JOH 10:39 They sought then again to lay hold of him. And he went forth from out of their hand.
JOH 10:40 And he went forth again on the other side of the Jordan unto the place where John was first immersing; and he stayed there.
JOH 10:41 And many came to him, and said that, John indeed did no sign; but all as much as John said concerning this one was true.
JOH 10:42 And many believed there in him.
JOH 11:1 And there was a certain sick man, Lazarus, from Bethany, from out of the town of Mary and Martha her sister.
JOH 11:2 And Mary was the one anointing the Lord with perfumed liquid, and wiped clean his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
JOH 11:3 The sisters sent then to him, saying, O Lord, behold, whom you are fond of is sick.
JOH 11:4 And hearing, Jesus said, This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that the son of God should be glorified through it.
JOH 11:5 And Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
JOH 11:6 Then as he heard that he is sick, then indeed he stayed in the place where he was two days.
JOH 11:7 Thereupon after this he says to the disciples, We should lead unto Judea again.
JOH 11:8 The disciples say to him, Rabbi, now the Jews seek to stone you, and again you go there?
JOH 11:9 Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone should walk in the day, he shall not stumble, for the light of this world he sees.
JOH 11:10 But if anyone should walk in the night, he stumbles, for the light is not in him.
JOH 11:11 These things he said. And after this he says to them, Lazarus our friend has went to sleep; but I shall go that that I should wake him up.
JOH 11:12 His disciples said then, O Lord, if he has went to sleep, he will be preserved.
JOH 11:13 But Jesus had spoken concerning his death. But they thought that concerning the resting of sleep he spoke of.
JOH 11:14 Then therefore Jesus said to them in an open manner, Lazarus died.
JOH 11:15 And I rejoice because of you that you should believe, for I was not there; but we should lead on to him.
JOH 11:16 Then said Thomas, the one being called Didymus, to the fellow-disciples, We should lead on also ourselves that we should die with him.
JOH 11:17 Having come then, Jesus found him four days already having been in the sepulchre.
JOH 11:18 And Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadiums.
JOH 11:19 And many from the Jews had come to the ones around Martha and Mary, so as to console them concerning their brother.
JOH 11:20 Then Martha, as she heard that Jesus comes, met him. But Mary was seated in the house.
JOH 11:21 Then said Martha to Jesus, O Lord, if you were here, my brother would not have died.
JOH 11:22 But even now I know that as much as you should ask God, God will give to you.
JOH 11:23 Jesus says to her, Your brother shall arise.
JOH 11:24 Martha says to him, I know that he will rise up in the resurrection in the last day.
JOH 11:25 Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection, and the life. The one believing in me, even if he should die, he shall live.
JOH 11:26 And every one living and believing in me in no way should die into the eon. Do you believe this?
JOH 11:27 She says to him, Yes, O Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the son of God, the one coming into the world.
JOH 11:28 And these things having said, she went forth, and called Mary her sister in private, having said, The teacher is at hand, and calls you.
JOH 11:29 That one as she heard, rises quickly, and comes to him.
JOH 11:30 But not yet was Jesus come into the town, but was in the place where Martha met him.
JOH 11:31 Then the Jews being with her in the house, and consoling her, seeing Mary, that quickly she rose up and went forth, followed her, saying that, She goes unto the sepulchre that she should weep there.
JOH 11:32 Then Mary as she came where Jesus was, seeing him, fell unto his feet, saying to him, O Lord, if you might have been here, my brother would not have died.
JOH 11:33 Jesus then as he beheld her weeping, and the Jews coming with her weeping, was deeply moved in the spirit, and troubled himself.
JOH 11:34 And he said, Where have you placed him? They say to him, O Lord, come and see!
JOH 11:35 Jesus burst into tears.
JOH 11:36 Then said the Jews, See how he was fond of him!
JOH 11:37 But some of them said, Was this one not able, opening the eyes of the blind, to execute that also this one should not have died?
JOH 11:38 Jesus then again deeply moved in himself comes unto the sepulchre. And it was a cave, and a stone was pressed against it.
JOH 11:39 Jesus says, Lift the stone! Martha the sister of the one having died says to him, O Lord, already he reeks; for it is the fourth day.
JOH 11:40 Jesus says to her, Said I not to you that, If you should believe, you shall see the glory of God?
JOH 11:41 Then they lifted away the stone where the one having died was situated. And Jesus lifted his eyes upward, and said, O father, I give thanks to you that you heard me.
JOH 11:42 And I know that at all times you hear me. But on account of the multitude standing around I spoke, that they should believe that you sent me.
JOH 11:43 And these things having said, with a great voice he cried out, Lazarus, come outside.
JOH 11:44 And came forth the one having died, being tied of the feet, and the hands swathed, and his face with a scarf tied about. Jesus says to them, Untie him, and let him go!
JOH 11:45 Then many of the Jews having come with Mary, and seeing what Jesus did, believed in him.
JOH 11:46 But some of them went forth to the Pharisees, and told to them what Jesus did.
JOH 11:47 Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together the sanhedrin, and said, What do we do? for this man does many signs.
JOH 11:48 If we let him do thus, all shall believe in him. And the Romans shall come and take us and the place and the nation.
JOH 11:49 And a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being chief priest that year, said to them, You do not know anything,
JOH 11:50 nor reason that it be advantageous to us that one man should die for the people, and the entire nation should not perish.
JOH 11:51 But this he said not of himself. But being chief priest that year he prophesied that Jesus was about to die for the nation;
JOH 11:52 and not for the nation only, but that also the children of God being dispersed should be brought together into one.
JOH 11:53 From that day then they advised that they should kill him.
JOH 11:54 Jesus then no longer in an open manner walked among the Jews; but went forth from there into the place near the wilderness, into a city being called Ephraim, and there spent time with his disciples.
JOH 11:55 And it was near the passover of the Jews. And many ascended unto Jerusalem from out of the region before the passover, that they should purify themselves.
JOH 11:56 Then they were seeking Jesus, and spoke with one another while standing in the temple, What do you think, that in no way should he come unto the holiday feast?
JOH 11:57 And even the chief priests and the Pharisees gave a command, that if any should know where he is, he should indicate it, so that they should lay hold of him.
JOH 12:1 Then Jesus, six days before the passover, came into Bethany, where Lazarus was, the one having died, whom he raised from the dead.
JOH 12:2 They made then for him a supper there, and Martha served; and Lazarus was one of the ones reclining with him.
JOH 12:3 Then Mary, having taken a liter of valuable perfumed spikenard liquid, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped clean his feet with her hair. And the house was filled of the scent of the perfumed liquid.
JOH 12:4 Says then one of his disciples, Judas son of Simon Iscariot, the one being about to deliver him up,
JOH 12:5 Why was this perfumed liquid not sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the poor?
JOH 12:6 But he said this, not that it was a care to him concerning the poor, but that he was a thief, and had the money container; and the things being thrown in it he bore.
JOH 12:7 Jesus then said, Leave her alone! she has kept it for the day of my entombing.
JOH 12:8 For at all times you have the poor with you, but me you have not at all times.
JOH 12:9 Then a great multitude of the Jews knew that he is there. And they came not on account of Jesus only, but that also they should see Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead.
JOH 12:10 And the chief priests consulted that also they should kill Lazarus;
JOH 12:11 for many of the Jews drew away because of him, and believed on Jesus.
JOH 12:12 The next day a great multitude having come unto the holiday feast, having heard that Jesus comes unto Jerusalem,
JOH 12:13 took palm fronds of the palm trees, and came forth to meet him, and were crying out, Hosanna; being blessed is the one coming in the name of the LORD, the king of Israel.
JOH 12:14 And Jesus having found a young donkey, sat upon it, as it is written,
JOH 12:15 Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king comes, sitting upon the foal of a donkey.
JOH 12:16 But these things his disciples did not know at first; but when Jesus was glorified then they remembered that these things were written about him, and these things they did to him.
JOH 12:17 Then the multitude being with him testified, about when he called Lazarus from out of the sepulchre, and raised him from the dead.
JOH 12:18 On account of this also the multitude met him, for it heard this sign for him to have done.
JOH 12:19 Then the Pharisees said to themselves, Do you contemplate that you benefit not one thing? See! the world went forth after him.
JOH 12:20 And there were certain Greeks from the ones ascending, that they should do obeisance during the holiday feast.
JOH 12:21 These then came forward to Philip, to the one from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, O master, we want to see Jesus.
JOH 12:22 Philip comes and speaks to Andrew; and again Andrew and Philip speak to Jesus.
JOH 12:23 But Jesus answered to them saying, The hour has come, that the son of man should be glorified.
JOH 12:24 Amen, amen, I say to you, Unless the kernel of grain falling into the earth should die, it alone remains; and if it should die, it bears much fruit.
JOH 12:25 The one being fond of his life, shall lose it; and the one detesting his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life.
JOH 12:26 If anyone should serve to me - follow me! And where I am, there also my servant will be. And if anyone should serve to me, the father shall esteem him.
JOH 12:27 Now my soul has been disturbed; and what should I say? O father, deliver me from this hour! But on account of this I came unto this hour.
JOH 12:28 O father, glorify your name! Then came a voice from out of the heaven, Even I glorified, and again I will glorify.
JOH 12:29 Then the multitude standing and hearing, said, Thunder has taken place. Others said, An angel has spoken to him.
JOH 12:30 Jesus answered and said, Not on account of me has this voice taken place, but on account of you.
JOH 12:31 Now is judgment of this world. Now the ruler of this world shall be cast outside.
JOH 12:32 And I, if I be raised up high from the earth, I will draw all to myself.
JOH 12:33 And this he said, signifying what death he was about to die.
JOH 12:34 The multitude answered him, We hear from the law that the Christ abides into the eon; and how say you that, It is necessary for the son of man to be raised up high? Who is this Son of man?
JOH 12:35 Then said Jesus to them, Still a little time the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, that darkness should not overtake you. And the one walking in the darkness knows not where he goes.
JOH 12:36 While you have the light, trust in the light, that you should become sons of light! These things Jesus spoke, and going forth, was hid from them.
JOH 12:37 But his doing such great signs in front of them, they believed not in him.
JOH 12:38 That the word of Isaiah the prophet should be fulfilled, which he said, O Lord, who believed our report? and the arm of the Lord, to whom was it uncovered?
JOH 12:39 On account of this they were not able to believe, for again Isaiah said,
JOH 12:40 He has blinded their eyes, and calloused their heart; that they should not see with the eyes, and comprehend with the heart, and be turned, and I should heal them.
JOH 12:41 These things Isaiah said, when he beheld his glory, and spoke concerning him.
JOH 12:42 Even however also many from the rulers believed in him; but because of the Pharisees they acknowledged it not, that they should not be removed from the synagogue.
JOH 12:43 For they loved the glory of men rather than the glory of God.
JOH 12:44 And Jesus cried out and said, The one believing in me, believes not in me, but in the one having sent me.
JOH 12:45 And the one contemplating me, contemplates the one having sent me.
JOH 12:46 I have come a light unto the world, that every one believing in me should not abide in the darkness.
JOH 12:47 And if anyone should hear of my sayings, and should not believe, I do not judge him. For I came not that I judge the world, but that I should deliver the world.
JOH 12:48 The one disregarding me, and receives not my words, has the thing judging him - the word which I have spoken, that one shall judge him in the last day.
JOH 12:49 For I spoke not of myself; but the father having sent me, he gave a commandment to me, what I should say, and what I should speak.
JOH 12:50 And I know that his commandment is life eternal. What then I speak, as the father has said to me, so I speak.
JOH 13:1 But before the holiday feast of the passover, Jesus knew that his hour has come, that he should cross over from out of this world to the father, having loved his own in the world - unto the end he loved them.
JOH 13:2 And supper taking place, the devil already casting into the heart of Judas son of Simon Iscariot, that he should deliver him up;
JOH 13:3 Jesus knowing that the father had given to him all into his hands, and that from God he came forth, and to God he goes;
JOH 13:4 he rises from the supper, and puts aside his garments; and having taken a linen towel he girded up himself.
JOH 13:5 Then he throws water into the washpot, and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe them clean with the linen towel in which he was girding himself up.
JOH 13:6 He comes then to Simon Peter; and that one says to him, O Lord, do you wash my feet?
JOH 13:7 Jesus answered and said to him, What I do you know not just now; but you shall know after these things.
JOH 13:8 Peter says to him, In no way should you wash my feet into the eon. Jesus responded to him, Unless I should wash you, you have not a part with me.
JOH 13:9 Simon Peter says to him, O Lord, not my feet only, but also the hands and the head.
JOH 13:10 Jesus says to him, The one being bathed has not a need than to wash the feet, but is clean entirely; and you are clean, but not all.
JOH 13:11 For he knew the one delivering him up; on account of this he said, Not all are clean.
JOH 13:12 When therefore he washed their feet, and took his garments, having reclined again, he said to them, Do you know what I have done to you?
JOH 13:13 You call me, The teacher, and, The Lord. And well you speak; for I am.
JOH 13:14 If then I washed your feet, being the Lord and the teacher, even you ought to wash one another's feet.
JOH 13:15 For I gave to you an example, that as I did to you also you should do.
JOH 13:16 Amen, amen, I say to you, A servant is not greater than his master; nor an apostle greater than the one having sent him.
JOH 13:17 If these things you know, blessed are you if you should do them.
JOH 13:18 Not concerning all of you I speak. I know whom I chose, but that the scripture should be fulfilled, The one chewing bread with me lifts his heel against me.
JOH 13:19 From just now I tell it to you before it takes place, that whenever it takes place, you should believe that I am he.
JOH 13:20 Amen, amen, I say to you, The one receiving whomsoever I shall send, receives me; and the one receiving me, receives the one having sent me.
JOH 13:21 These things having said, Jesus was disturbed in the spirit, and testified, and said, Amen, amen, I say to you, That one of you shall deliver me up.
JOH 13:22 Then the disciples looked at one another, being perplexed concerning what he says.
JOH 13:23 And one of his disciples was reclining at the bosom of Jesus, whom Jesus loved.
JOH 13:24 Then Simon Peter nodded to this one, to inquire about who it may be concerning of whom he speaks.
JOH 13:25 And that one having fallen upon the breast of Jesus says to him, O Lord, who is it?
JOH 13:26 Jesus answers, That one is to whom I having dipped the morsel shall give it. And having dipped the morsel, he gives it to Judas son of Simon Iscariot.
JOH 13:27 And after the morsel, then Satan entered into that one. Jesus says then to him, What you do, do more quickly!
JOH 13:28 But no one knew this of the ones reclining about what he said to him.
JOH 13:29 For some thought, since Judas had the money container, that Jesus says to him, Buy what we have need for the holiday feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.
JOH 13:30 Having taken then the morsel, that one immediately went forth - and it was night.
JOH 13:31 When he went forth, Jesus says, Now the son of man was glorified, and God was glorified in him.
JOH 13:32 If God was glorified in him, also God shall glorify him in himself, and straightway shall glorify him.
JOH 13:33 Sons, still a little while I am with you. You shall seek me, and as I said to the Jews that, Where I go, you will not be able to come; and to you I speak just now.
JOH 13:34 A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another! As I loved you, that also you love one another!
JOH 13:35 In this all shall know that you are my disciples, if you should have love among one another.
JOH 13:36 Simon Peter says to him, O Lord, where do you go? Jesus answered to him, Where I go, you are not able to follow me now; but afterwards you shall follow me.
JOH 13:37 Peter says to him, O Lord, why am I not able to follow you just now? I will put my life for you.
JOH 13:38 Jesus answered to him, Shall you place your life for me? Amen, amen, I say to you, In no way the rooster shall call out, until of which you shall totally reject me three times.
JOH 14:1 Let not your heart be disturbed! Believe in God, and believe in me!
JOH 14:2 In the residence of my father there are many abodes. But if not, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
JOH 14:3 And whenever I should go and should prepare for you a place, again I will come and take you to myself; that where I am, you should be also.
JOH 14:4 And where I go you know, and the way you know.
JOH 14:5 Thomas says to him, O Lord, we know not where you go; and how are we able to know the way?
JOH 14:6 Jesus says to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the father unless through me.
JOH 14:7 If you had known me, you would have known my father also. And from now on you know him, and you have seen him.
JOH 14:8 Philip says to him, O Lord, show to us the father, and it suffices to us!
JOH 14:9 Jesus says to him, So great a time I am with you, and you know me not, Philip? The one seeing me has seen the father; and how do you say, Show us the father?
JOH 14:10 Do you not believe that I am in the father, and the father is in me? The words which I speak to you I speak not from myself. But the father abiding in me, he does the works.
JOH 14:11 Believe me that I am in the father, and the father is in me! But if not, because of the works themselves believe me!
JOH 14:12 Amen, amen, I say to you, The one believing in me, the works which I do even that one will do; and greater than these he shall do; for I go to my father.
JOH 14:13 And whatever you should ask in my name, this I shall do, that the father should be glorified in the son.
JOH 14:14 If you should ask anything in my name, I shall act.
JOH 14:15 If you should love me, give heed to my commandments!
JOH 14:16 And I will ask the father, and he shall give to you another comforter, that he should abide with you into the eon.
JOH 14:17 The spirit of truth; whom the world is not able to receive, for it does not contemplate it, nor knows it. But you know it, for it abides with you, and it will be in you.
JOH 14:18 I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you.
JOH 14:19 Yet a little while and the world no longer views me; but you view me - for I live, and you shall live.
JOH 14:20 In that day you shall know that I am in my father, and you in me, and I in you.
JOH 14:21 The one having my commandments, and giving heed to them, that one is the one loving me. And the one loving me shall be loved by my father, and I will love him, and will reveal myself to him.
JOH 14:22 Judas says to him (not Iscariot,) O Lord, what has taken place that to us you are about to reveal yourself, and not to the world?
JOH 14:23 Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, he will give heed to my word; and my father will love him, and to him we will come, and will make an abode with him.
JOH 14:24 The one not loving me does not give heed to my words. And the word which you hear is not mine, but the father having sent me.
JOH 14:25 These things I have spoken to you, abiding with you.
JOH 14:26 But the comforter, the holy spirit, whom the father will send in my name, that one will teach you all things, and will remind you all things which I said to you.
JOH 14:27 Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you - not as the world gives, give I to you. Let not your heart be disturbed, nor be timid!
JOH 14:28 You heard that I said to you, I go away, and I come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, that I said, I go to the father; for my father is greater than me.
JOH 14:29 And now I have told it to you before it takes place, that whenever it happens, you should believe.
JOH 14:30 No longer will I speak many things with you. For the one of the world comes - the ruler; and with me he has not one thing.
JOH 14:31 But that the world should know that I love the father; and as the father gave charge to me, so I do. Arise, we should lead on from here.
JOH 15:1 I am the true grapevine, and my father is the grower.
JOH 15:2 Every vine branch in me not bearing fruit, he takes it. And every branch bearing fruit, he cleanses it, that it should bear more fruit.
JOH 15:3 Already you are clean through the word which I have spoken to you.
JOH 15:4 Abide in me, and I in you! As the vine branch is not able to bear fruit of itself, unless it should abide in the grapevine; so not even you, unless you should abide in me.
JOH 15:5 I am the grapevine, you are the vine branches. The one abiding in me, and I in him, this one bears much fruit; for apart from me you are not able to do anything.
JOH 15:6 Unless one should abide in me, he is thrown outside as the vine branch, and withers; and they gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
JOH 15:7 If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, whatever you should want, ask, and it shall be to you!
JOH 15:8 In this my father is glorified, that you should bear much fruit; and you should become disciples to me.
JOH 15:9 As the father loved me, I also loved you. Abide in the love - in the one mine!
JOH 15:10 If you should keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love; as I have kept the commandments of my father, and I abide in the love of his.
JOH 15:11 These things I have spoken to you, that my joy should abide in you, and your joy should be full.
JOH 15:12 This is my commandment, That you love one another, as I loved you!
JOH 15:13 Greater love than this no one has, that one should place his life for his friends.
JOH 15:14 You are my friends, if you should do as much as I give charge to you.
JOH 15:15 No longer do I call you servants; for the servant knows not what his master does. But I have called you friends; for all things which I heard from my father I made known to you.
JOH 15:16 You chose me not, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and your fruit should abide; that whatever you should ask the father in my name, he should give to you.
JOH 15:17 These things I give charge to you, that you should love one another.
JOH 15:18 If the world detests you, know that it detested me first before you!
JOH 15:19 If you were of the world, the world would be fond of its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you from out of the world - on account of this the world detests you.
JOH 15:20 Remember the word which I said to you! A servant is not greater than his master. If me they persecuted, also you they shall persecute. If they give heed to my word, then they will give heed to yours.
JOH 15:21 But all these things they shall do to you because of my name, for they know not the one having sent me.
JOH 15:22 Unless I came and spoke to them, they had not had sin; but now they have not an excuse concerning their sin.
JOH 15:23 The one detesting me, even detests my father.
JOH 15:24 If I did not the works among them which no other has done, they had not had sin. But now even they have seen and have detested even me and my father.
JOH 15:25 But that the word should be fulfilled, the one having been written in their law that, They detested me without a charge.
JOH 15:26 But whenever the comforter should come, whom I send to you from the father, the spirit of the truth, who from the father goes forth, that one will witness concerning me;
JOH 15:27 and you also witness, for you were with me from the beginning.
JOH 16:1 These things I have spoken to you, that you should not be caused to stumble.
JOH 16:2 Out of the synagogue they shall put you. And, there comes an hour, that every one killing you thinks he offers service to God.
JOH 16:3 And these things they shall do, for they know not the father, nor me.
JOH 16:4 But these things I have spoken to you, that whenever the hour should come, you should remember them, that I spoke to you. But these things I said not to you at the beginning, for I was with you.
JOH 16:5 But now I go away to the one having sent me; and not one of you asks me, Where do you go?
JOH 16:6 But because these things I have spoken to you, distress has filled your heart.
JOH 16:7 But I speak to you the truth; it is advantageous to you that I go forth. For if I should not go forth, the comforter shall not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you.
JOH 16:8 And having come, that one will reprove the world concerning sin, and concerning righteousness, and concerning judgment.
JOH 16:9 Concerning sin then, that they believe not in me.
JOH 16:10 And concerning righteousness, that to my father I go away, and no longer you view me.
JOH 16:11 And concerning judgment, for the ruler of this world has been judged.
JOH 16:12 Still many things I have to say to you, but you are not able to bear them just now.
JOH 16:13 But whenever that one should come, the spirit of the truth, he will guide you into all the truth. For he shall not speak from himself; but as much as whatever he should hear, he shall speak; and the things coming he shall announce to you.
JOH 16:14 That one will glorify me. For of mine he shall take, and shall announce to you.
JOH 16:15 All as much as the father has is mine. On account of this I said that, Of mine he takes, and shall announce to you.
JOH 16:16 A little while, and you shall not view me. And again a little while and you shall see me, for I go away to the father.
JOH 16:17 Said then some of his disciples to one another, What is this which he says to us, A little while, and you will not view me. And again a little while, and you shall see me; and, For I go away to the father?
JOH 16:18 They said then, What is this which he says, the, Little while? We do not know what he speaks.
JOH 16:19 Jesus knew then that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, Concerning this do you seek with one another, that I said, A little while, and you shall not view me. And again a little while, and you shall see me?
JOH 16:20 Amen, amen, I say to you that, You will weep and wail, but the world will rejoice. And you will be distressed, but your distress will become for joy.
JOH 16:21 The woman whenever she should give birth has distress, for her hour came. But whenever she should bear the child, no longer does she remember the affliction, on account of the joy that a man was born into the world.
JOH 16:22 And you then indeed now have distress. But again I shall see you, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one shall take from you.
JOH 16:23 And in that day you shall not ask me any thing. Amen, amen, I say to you that, Whatever as much as you should ask the father in my name, he will give to you.
JOH 16:24 Until now you asked not any thing in my name. Ask and you shall receive, that your joy should be filled!
JOH 16:25 I have spoken these things in proverbs to you. But comes the hour when no longer in proverbs shall I speak to you, but I will announce to you concerning the father in an open manner.
JOH 16:26 In that day you shall ask in my name. And I say not to you, that I will ask the father concerning you.
JOH 16:27 For the father himself is fond of you, for you are fond of me, and have believed that I have come forth from God;
JOH 16:28 I came forth from the father, and I have come into the world. Again I leave the world, and I go to the father.
JOH 16:29 His disciples say to him, See, now in an open manner you speak, and not one proverb do you say!
JOH 16:30 Now we know that you know all things, and you have not a need that anyone should ask you. In this we believe that you came forth from God.
JOH 16:31 Jesus responded to them, Now you believe?
JOH 16:32 Behold, there comes an hour, and now has come, that you will be dispersed each unto his own place, and you shall leave me alone. And I am not alone, for the father is with me.
JOH 16:33 These things I have spoken to you, that in me you should have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation. But be of courage! I have overcome the world.
JOH 17:1 These things Jesus spoke, and lifted up his eyes unto the heaven, and said, O father, the hour has come; glorify your son, that also your son should glorify you!
JOH 17:2 As you gave to him authority over all flesh, that all whom you have given to him, he gives to them life eternal.
JOH 17:3 And this is the eternal life, that they should know you the only True God, and Jesus Christ whom you sent.
JOH 17:4 I glorified you upon the earth. I perfected the work which you have given to me that I should do.
JOH 17:5 And now you glorify me, O father, with the glory of yourself which I had with you before the world being in existence!
JOH 17:6 I made manifest your name to the men whom you have given to me from out of the world. They were yours, and you have given them to me; and your word they have given heed.
JOH 17:7 Now they have known that all things, as many as you have given to me, are from you.
JOH 17:8 For the words which you have given to me, I have given to them; and they received, and they know truly that from you I came forth, and they believed that you sent me.
JOH 17:9 I ask concerning them. Not concerning the world do I ask, but concerning whom you have given to me; for they are yours.
JOH 17:10 And the ones mine are all yours, and the ones yours mine; and I have been glorified in them.
JOH 17:11 And no longer am I in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. O holy father, keep them in your name - whom you have given to me, that they might be one, as we!
JOH 17:12 When I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. I guarded whom you have given to me, and not one of them perished, except the son of destruction; that the scripture should be fulfilled.
JOH 17:13 And now I come to you; and these things I speak in the world, that they should have my joy having been filled in them.
JOH 17:14 I have given to them your word; and the world detested them, for they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
JOH 17:15 I ask not that you should take them from out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil.
JOH 17:16 They are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
JOH 17:17 Sanctify them in your truth! Your word is truth.
JOH 17:18 As you sent me into the world, I also send them into the world.
JOH 17:19 And for them I sanctify myself, that also they might be ones having been sanctified in truth.
JOH 17:20 And I ask not for these only, but also for the ones believing in me through their word;
JOH 17:21 that all might be one; as you, O father, are in me, and I in you, that also they in us might be one; that the world should believe that you sent me.
JOH 17:22 And I have given to them the glory which you have given to me; that they should be one, as we are one.
JOH 17:23 I in them, and you in me, that they should be perfected into one; and that the world should know that you sent me, and loved them, as you loved me.
JOH 17:24 O father, whom you have given to me, I want that where I am, also those should be with me; that they should view my glory, which you gave to me. For you loved me before the founding of the world.
JOH 17:25 O just father, even the world knew you not. But I knew you, and these knew that you sent me.
JOH 17:26 And I made known to them your name, and I will make it known. That the love which you loved me should be in them, and I in them.
JOH 18:1 These things having said, Jesus came forth with his disciples on the other side of the rushing stream of the Kidron, where there was a garden into which he and his disciples entered.
JOH 18:2 And Judas the one delivering him up also knew the place. For often Jesus gathered together there with his disciples.
JOH 18:3 Then Judas, taking the cohort and officers of the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with torches and lamps and weapons.
JOH 18:4 Jesus then knowing all things coming upon him, having come forth, said to them, Whom do you seek?
JOH 18:5 They answered to him, Jesus the Nazarene. Jesus says to them, I am he. And standing by also was Judas, the one delivering him up, with them.
JOH 18:6 When then he said to them that, I am he, they went rearwards, and fell on the ground.
JOH 18:7 Again then he asked them, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene.
JOH 18:8 Jesus answered, I said to you that I am he. If then you seek me, let these go!
JOH 18:9 That the word which he said should be fulfilled, that, Of whom you have given to me perished not of them not one.
JOH 18:10 Simon Peter then having a sword drew it, and hit the servant of the chief priest, and cut off his right ear. And the name to the servant was Malchus.
JOH 18:11 then Jesus said to Peter, Put your sword into its holder! The cup which the father has given to me, should I in no way drink it?
JOH 18:12 Then the cohort and the commander and the officers of the Jews seized Jesus, and bound him.
JOH 18:13 And they took him away to Annas first; for he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was chief priest that year.
JOH 18:14 And it was Caiaphas advising the Jews, saying that, It is advantageous for one man to perish for the people.
JOH 18:15 And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and another disciple. And that disciple was known to the chief priest, and entered together with Jesus into the courtyard of the chief priest.
JOH 18:16 And Peter stood by the door outside. The other disciple came forth then, who was known to the chief priest, and spoke with the doorkeeper, and she brought in Peter.
JOH 18:17 Says then the maidservant doorkeeper to Peter, Are you not also one of the disciples of this man? That one says, I am not.
JOH 18:18 And the servants and the officers were standing, having made a charcoal bed; for it was chilly. And they were heating themselves. And Peter was standing with them, and heating himself.
JOH 18:19 Then the chief priest asked Jesus concerning his disciples, and concerning his teaching.
JOH 18:20 Jesus answered to him, I in an open manner spoke to the world; I at all times taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, where at all times the Jews come together; and in secret I spoke nothing.
JOH 18:21 Why do you ask? Ask the ones hearing what I spoke to them! Behold, these know what I said!
JOH 18:22 And in his having said these things, one of the officers standing by gave a slap to Jesus, having said, Thus you answer to the chief priest?
JOH 18:23 Jesus responded to him, If ill I have spoken, testify concerning the bad; but if well, why do you flay at me?
JOH 18:24 And Annas sent him being bound to Caiaphas the chief priest.
JOH 18:25 And Simon Peter was standing and heating himself. Then one said to him, are you not also one of his disciples? That one denied, and said, I am not.
JOH 18:26 Says one of the servants of the chief priest, being a relative of whom Peter cut off the ear, Did I not see you in the garden with him?
JOH 18:27 Then again Peter denied. And immediately a rooster called out.
JOH 18:28 Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas unto the praetorium. And it was morning; and they did not enter into the praetorium, that they should not be defiled; but that they should eat the passover.
JOH 18:29 Then came forth Pilate to them, and said, What charge do you bring against this man?
JOH 18:30 They answered and said to him, If this one was not doing evil, we would not have delivered him up to you.
JOH 18:31 Then said Pilate to them, You take him, and according to your law judge him! Then the Jews said to him, To us it is not allowed to kill anyone.
JOH 18:32 That the word of Jesus should be fulfilled which he spoke signifying by what death he was about to die.
JOH 18:33 Pilate entered then into the praetorium again, and called Jesus, and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews?
JOH 18:34 Jesus answered to him, From yourself do you say this, or others spoke to you concerning me?
JOH 18:35 Pilate answered, Much less, am I a Jew? Your nation and the chief priests delivered you to me. What did you do?
JOH 18:36 Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom was of this world, my officers would have been struggling that I should not be delivered up to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not from here.
JOH 18:37 Then said Pilate to him, Then you are a king? Jesus answered, You say it, for I am a king. I have been born for this, and for this I have come into the world, that I should testify to the truth. Every one being of the truth hears my voice.
JOH 18:38 Pilate says to him, What is truth? And this having said, again he came forth to the Jews, and says to them, I find not one fault in him.
JOH 18:39 But it is a custom with you that I should loosen one to you at the passover. Do you want then I should loose to you the king of the Jews?
JOH 18:40 They cried out then again, all saying, Not this one, but Barabbas. And Barabbas was a robber.
JOH 19:1 Then therefore Pilate took Jesus, and whipped him.
JOH 19:2 And the soldiers, having plaited a crown of thorns, placed it upon his head, and a cloak of purple they put around him,
JOH 19:3 and said, Hail, the king of the Jews! And they gave him slaps.
JOH 19:4 Pilate came forth then again outside, and says to them, See! I bring him to you outside, that you should know that in him not one fault I find.
JOH 19:5 Jesus then came forth outside, wearing the thorny crown, and the purple cloak. And he says to them, Behold the man!
JOH 19:6 When then the chief priests and the officers beheld him, they cried out saying, Crucify, crucify him! Pilate says to them, Take him yourselves, and crucify, for I do not find fault in him.
JOH 19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die, for he made himself a son of God.
JOH 19:8 Then when Pilate heard this word, more he feared.
JOH 19:9 And he entered into the praetorium again, and says to Jesus, From what place are you? But Jesus gave not an answer to him.
JOH 19:10 Then says Pilate to him, To me you speak not? Do you not know that I have authority to crucify you, and I have authority to release you?
JOH 19:11 Jesus answered, You have not an authority in anything against me, except what was given to you from above. On account of this, the one delivering me up to you has the greater sin.
JOH 19:12 From this Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying, If this one you should release, you are not a friend of Caesar. Every one making himself king, speaks against Caesar.
JOH 19:13 Then Pilate hearing this word, brought Jesus outside, and sat upon the rostrum in the place being called Lithostratus, but in Hebrew Gabbatha.
JOH 19:14 And it was preparation of the passover, and about the sixth hour. And he says to the Jews, Behold your king!
JOH 19:15 And they cried out, Take him, take him! Crucify him! Pilate says to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have not a king except Caesar.
JOH 19:16 Then therefore he delivered him up to them that he should be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him.
JOH 19:17 And bearing his cross, he came forth unto the place being called of the Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha;
JOH 19:18 where they crucified him, and with him two others, one here on this side and one h ere on that side, and Jesus in the middle.
JOH 19:19 And Pilate wrote also a title, and put it upon the cross. And was written, Jesus the Nazarene the King of the Jews.
JOH 19:20 This title then many of the Jews read, for the place was near the city where Jesus was crucified. And it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, in Roman.
JOH 19:21 then the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews! but that that one said, I am king of the Jews.
JOH 19:22 Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
JOH 19:23 Then the soldiers, when they crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts - to each soldier a part, and the inner garment. But the inner garment was seamless, from the top woven through entire.
JOH 19:24 They said then to one another, We should not split it, but obtain by lot for it, whose it shall be; that the scripture should be fulfilled, the one saying, They divided into parts my garments among themselves, and over my clothes they cast a lot. Then indeed the soldiers did these things.
JOH 19:25 And stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and the sister of his mother, Mary the one of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.
JOH 19:26 Jesus then seeing the mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he says to his mother, O woman, See your son!
JOH 19:27 Then he says to the disciple, Behold, your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her for his own.
JOH 19:28 After this, Jesus knowing that all things already have been finished, that the scripture should be perfected, says, I thirst.
JOH 19:29 A utensil then was situated full of vinegar; and the ones having filled a sponge with vinegar, and putting on hyssop, brought it near his mouth.
JOH 19:30 When therefore Jesus took the vinegar, he said, It has been finished. And having leaned the head, he delivered up the spirit.
JOH 19:31 Then the Jews (that the bodies should not remain upon the cross during the sabbath, since it was preparation, for that was a great day of the sabbath) asked Pilate that their legs should be broken, and they should be taken away.
JOH 19:32 Then came the soldiers. And the first one they broke the legs, and the other being crucified along with him.
JOH 19:33 But having come unto Jesus, when they saw him already having died, they did not break his legs.
JOH 19:34 But one of the soldiers with a lance pierced his side, and immediately came forth blood and water.
JOH 19:35 And the one seeing bears witness, and his testimony is true. And that one knows that he speaks true, that you should believe.
JOH 19:36 For these things took place, that the scripture should be fulfilled, Not a bone of his shall be broken.
JOH 19:37 And again another scripture says, They shall look on whom they pierced.
JOH 19:38 And after these things Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate, (being a disciple of Jesus, but being hidden for the fear of the Jews,) that he should take the body of Jesus. And Pilate committed it to his care. Then he came, and took the body of Jesus.
JOH 19:39 And came also Nicodemus, (the one coming to Jesus by night at first,) bearing a mixture of myrrh and aloe, about a hundred liters.
JOH 19:40 They then took the body of Jesus, and tied it with small pieces of cloth with the aromatics, as is custom with the Jews to embalm.
JOH 19:41 And a garden was in the place where he was crucified; and in the garden a new sepulchre, in which not yet was anyone placed.
JOH 19:42 There then, (because of the preparation of the Jews, for the sepulchre was near,) they placed Jesus.
JOH 20:1 But on day one of the sabbaths, Mary the Magdalene comes in the morning, still being darkness, unto the sepulchre, and sees the stone having been lifted from the sepulchre.
JOH 20:2 She runs then, and comes to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus is fond of, and says to them, They took the Lord from out of the sepulchre, and we knew not where they put him.
JOH 20:3 Peter went forth then, and the other disciple, and they came unto the sepulchre.
JOH 20:4 And the two ran together; and the other disciple ran in front more quickly than Peter, and came first unto the sepulchre.
JOH 20:5 And leaning over, he sees the linen bands lying; however he enters not.
JOH 20:6 Then Simon Peter comes following him, and he entered into the sepulchre, and views the linen bands lying.
JOH 20:7 And the scarf which was upon his head is not lying with the linen bands, but separate from them, being swathed in one place.
JOH 20:8 Then therefore entered also the other disciple, the one having come first unto the sepulchre. And he saw, and believed.
JOH 20:9 For not yet they knew the scripture that it is necessary for him to rise up from the dead.
JOH 20:10 Then the disciples went forth again to their own.
JOH 20:11 But Mary stood at the sepulchre weeping outside. As then she wept, she leaned over into the sepulchre,
JOH 20:12 and views two angels in white, one being seated at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus has been laid.
JOH 20:13 And they say to her, those ones, O woman, why do you weep? She says to them that, They took my Lord, and I know not where they placed him.
JOH 20:14 And these things having said, she turns to the rear, and she views Jesus standing, and knows not that it is Jesus.
JOH 20:15 Jesus says to her, O woman, Why do you weep? Whom do you seek? That on, thinking that he is the gardener, says to him, O master, if you bore him, tell me where you put him, and I will take him.
JOH 20:16 Jesus says to her, Mary. Turning, that one says to him, Rabboni; which is to say, Teacher.
JOH 20:17 Jesus says to her, Do not touch me! for not yet have I ascended to my father. But go to my brothers, and say to them! I ascend to my father, and your father; and my God, and your God.
JOH 20:18 Then Mary Magdalene comes reporting to the disciples that she has seen the Lord, and these things he said to her.
JOH 20:19 It being then late in that day, in the day one of the sabbaths, and the doors being locked where the disciples were being gathered together because of the fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and says to them, Peace to you.
JOH 20:20 And this having said, he showed to them his hands and the side. The disciples rejoiced then seeing the Lord.
JOH 20:21 Jesus said then to them again, Peace to you. As the father sent me, I also send you.
JOH 20:22 And this having said, he breathed onto, and says to them, Receive holy spirit.
JOH 20:23 Of whomsoever sins you should forgive, they are forgiven to them; of whomsoever you should hold, they are held.
JOH 20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, the one being called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
JOH 20:25 The other disciples said then to him, We have seen the Lord. And he said to them, Unless I should see in his hands the impression of the nails, and should put my finger into the impression of the nails, and should put my hand into his side, in no way shall I believe.
JOH 20:26 And after eight days again his disciples were inside, and Thomas was with them. Then comes Jesus, of the doors having been locked, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you.
JOH 20:27 So then he says to Thomas, Bring your finger here, and behold my hands; and bring your hand, and put it into my side; and be not unbelieving, but believing!
JOH 20:28 And Thomas responded and said to him, My Lord and my God.
JOH 20:29 Jesus says to him, Because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are the ones not seeing, and having believed.
JOH 20:30 Indeed many then even other signs Jesus did in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this scroll.
JOH 20:31 But these things have been written that you should believe that Jesus is the Christ, the son of God; and that believing you should have life in his name.
JOH 21:1 After these things Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and he manifested thus.
JOH 21:2 There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, the one being called Didymus, and Nathanael, the one from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples.
JOH 21:3 Simon Peter says to them, I go to fish. They say to him, We also go with you. And they went forth, ascending into the boat straightly. And in that night they laid hold of nothing.
JOH 21:4 And morning already coming to pass, Jesus stood on the shore. However the disciples knew not that it is Jesus.
JOH 21:5 Jesus then says to them, Sons do you have anything for eating? They answered to him, No.
JOH 21:6 And he said to them, Cast unto the right parts of the boat with the net, and you shall find. They cast then, and no longer were they able to draw because of the multitude of the fishes.
JOH 21:7 Says then that disciple whom Jesus loved to Peter, It is the Lord. Then Simon Peter having heard that it is the Lord, girded up the outer garment, (for he was naked,) and threw himself into the sea.
JOH 21:8 And the other disciples came in the boat; (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits,) dragging along the net of the fishes.
JOH 21:9 Then as they disembarked onto the land, they see a charcoal bed being situated, and fish resting upon it, and bread.
JOH 21:10 Jesus says to them, bring of the little fish which you laid hold of just now.
JOH 21:11 Simon Peter ascended, and drew the net upon the land full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty-three. And being so great the net was not split.
JOH 21:12 Jesus says to them, Come dine! But no one dared of the disciples to diligently inquire of him, Who are you? knowing that it is the Lord.
JOH 21:13 Then comes Jesus, and takes the bread, and gives to them, and the little fish in like manner.
JOH 21:14 This is already the third time Jesus was manifested to his disciples, having been raised from the dead.
JOH 21:15 When therefore they dined, Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He says to him, Yes, O Lord; you know that I am fond of you. He says to him, Graze my little lambs!
JOH 21:16 He says to him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He says to him, Yes, O Lord; you know that I am fond of you. He says to him, Tend my sheep!
JOH 21:17 He says to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, are you fond of me? Peter fretted that he said to him the third time, Are you fond of me? And he said to him, O Lord, you know all things; you know that I am fond of you. Jesus says to him, Graze my sheep!
JOH 21:18 Amen, amen, I say to you, When you were younger, you tied up yourself, and walked where you wanted; but whenever you shall grow old, you shall stretch out your hands, and another will tie you up, and shall bring you where you want not.
JOH 21:19 And this he said, signifying by what death he shall glorify God. And this having said, he says to him, You follow me!
JOH 21:20 And Peter turning, sees the disciple whom Jesus loved following; who also reclined at the supper upon his breast, and said, O Lord, who is the one delivering you up?
JOH 21:21 Seeing this one, Peter says to Jesus, O Lord, But what about this one?
JOH 21:22 Jesus says to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is it to you? You follow me!
JOH 21:23 Then this word went forth unto the brothers, that that disciple does not die. But Jesus said not to him that he does not die; but, If I want him to remain until I come, what is it to you?
JOH 21:24 This is the disciple witnessing concerning these things, and writing these things. And we know that his witness is true.
JOH 21:25 And there are also many other things, as much as Jesus did, which if they should be written one by one, I imagine not even the world itself to have space for the scrolls being written. Amen.
ACT 1:1 Indeed the first matter I made concerning all the things, O Theophilus, which Jesus began to both do and to teach,
ACT 1:2 until which day, giving charge to the apostles through holy spirit whom he chose, he was taken up.
ACT 1:3 To whom also he rendered himself living after his suffering with many evidences, during forty days being seen by them, and speaking the things concerning the kingdom of God.
ACT 1:4 And being assembled together, he exhorted them to not separate from Jerusalem, but to remain about for the promise of the father, Which he said, you heard of me.
ACT 1:5 For John indeed immersed in water; but you shall be immersed in holy spirit not after these many days.
ACT 1:6 They indeed then having come together, they asked him, saying, O Lord, is it in this time you restore the kingdom to Israel?
ACT 1:7 And he said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons which the father put in his own authority.
ACT 1:8 But you shall receive power of the holy spirit coming upon you. And you will be to me witnesses in both Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and unto the end of the earth.
ACT 1:9 And having said these things, of their looking, he was lifted up; and a cloud undertook him from their eyes.
ACT 1:10 And as they were gazing into the heaven at his going, and behold, two men stood by them in white attire,
ACT 1:11 ones who also said, Men, Galileans, why do you stand looking into the heaven? This Jesus being taken up from you into the heaven, so shall come in which manner you saw him going into the heaven.
ACT 1:12 Then they returned unto Jerusalem from the mount being called Olive Grove, which is near Jerusalem, sufficing for a sabbath journey.
ACT 1:13 And when they entered, they ascended unto the upper room, where were staying both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Jude of James.
ACT 1:14 These all were attending constantly with one accord in the prayer and in the supplication, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers.
ACT 1:15 And in those days, Peter having risen up in the midst of the disciples, said, (and was the multitude of names together about a hundred twenty,)
ACT 1:16 Men, brothers, it was necessary to fulfill this scripture, which the holy spirit foretold through the mouth of David concerning Judas, the one becoming a guide to the ones seizing Jesus.
ACT 1:17 For he was counted with us, and obtained a lot of this service.
ACT 1:18 This one indeed then acquired a place from the wage of iniquity; and being fallen headlong, he split open in the middle, and all his intestines poured out.
ACT 1:19 And it became known to all the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, so as to call that place, in their own dialect, Akeldama; that is, Place of Blood.
ACT 1:20 For it has been written in the book of Psalms, Let his property become desolate, and let there not be one dwelling in it! and, May another receive his overseeing.
ACT 1:21 It is necessary then of the men coming together with us during all the time in which the Lord Jesus entered and went forth among us,
ACT 1:22 beginning from the immersion of John, until the day of which he was taken up from us, for one of these to become a witness with us of his resurrection.
ACT 1:23 And they established two, Joseph (being called Barsabas, who was called by name Justus,) and Matthias.
ACT 1:24 And praying, they said, You, O Lord, are a knower of hearts of all, make manifest whom you chose of these - the one of the two,
ACT 1:25 to receive the lot of this service and commission, from of which Judas violated to go unto his own place!
ACT 1:26 And they gave their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was alloted with the eleven apostles.
ACT 2:1 And in the filling up the days of Pentecost, they were all together with one accord in the same place.
ACT 2:2 And came suddenly from out of the heaven a sound as if of a violent breath being brought, and it filled the whole house of which they were settled.
ACT 2:3 And there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire, and it sat upon each one of them.
ACT 2:4 And they were filled all together of holy spirit, and began to speak with other languages, as the spirit gave to them to be declared.
ACT 2:5 And there were Jews dwelling in Jerusalem, reverent men from every nation of the ones under the heaven.
ACT 2:6 And the report of this having taken place, the multitude came together and were confounded, for they heard each one of them speaking in his own dialect.
ACT 2:7 And they were amazed and marvelled, saying to one another, Behold are these not all which are speaking Galileans?
ACT 2:8 And how hear we each in our own dialect, in which we were born?
ACT 2:9 Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the ones inhabiting Mesopotamia, and Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia,
ACT 2:10 both Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and the Romans emigrating here, both Jews and converts,
ACT 2:11 Cretans and Arabians - we hear them speaking in our own languages the magnificent things of God.
ACT 2:12 And all were amazed and perplexed, saying the other to another, What ever would this be?
ACT 2:13 But others taunting said that, They are stuffed with sweet new wine.
ACT 2:14 And Peter standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and declared to them, Men, Jews, and all the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, let this be made known to you, and give ear to my words!
ACT 2:15 For these are not intoxicated as you undertake, for it is the third hour of the day.
ACT 2:16 But this is the thing being spoken by the prophet Joel;
ACT 2:17 And it will be in the last days, says God, I will pour out from my spirit upon all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams.
ACT 2:18 And indeed upon my menservants and upon my maidservants in those days I will pour out from my spirit; and they shall prophesy.
ACT 2:19 And I will execute miracles in the heaven upward, and signs upon the earth below; blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke.
ACT 2:20 The sun shall be converted into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming - the great and apparent day of the Lord.
ACT 2:21 And it shall be all, who ever should call upon the name of the Lord shall be delivered.
ACT 2:22 Men, Israelites, hear these words! Jesus the Nazarene, a man from God exhibited unto you powers and miracles and signs, which God did through him in your midst, as even you yourselves know.
ACT 2:23 This one delivered up by the confirmed counsel and foreknowledge of God; having taken, you did away with by lawless hands staking him up.
ACT 2:24 Whom God raised up, having loosed the pangs of death. In so far as it was not possible for him to be held by it.
ACT 2:25 For David says concerning him, I foresaw the Lord before me continually, for he is at my right hand, that I shall not be shaken.
ACT 2:26 On account of this my heart was made merry, and my tongue exulted; but still also my flesh shall encamp in hope.
ACT 2:27 For you shall not abandon my soul into Hades, nor shall you give your sacred one to see corruption.
ACT 2:28 You made known to me the ways of life; you shall fill me with gladness with your countenance.
ACT 2:29 Men, brothers, it is allowed to speak with an open manner to you concerning the patriarch David, that both he came to an end and was entombed, and his tomb is among us as far as this day.
ACT 2:30 A prophet then being, and knowing that God swore to him an oath, (of the fruit of his loin, the one according to the flesh,) to raise up the Christ, to sit upon his throne;
ACT 2:31 looking out ahead he spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, That his soul was not left in Hades, nor his flesh saw corruption.
ACT 2:32 This Jesus God raised up, of which all we are witnesses.
ACT 2:33 By the right hand then of God having been raised up high, and the promise of the holy spirit having received by the father, he poured out this which you now see and hear.
ACT 2:34 For David did not ascend into the heavens. For he says himself, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit down at my right,
ACT 2:35 until whenever I should establish your enemies as a footstool of your feet.
ACT 2:36 With certainty then let all the house of Israel know, that God made him both Lord and Christ - this Jesus whom you crucified!
ACT 2:37 And having heard, they were vexed in the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, What shall we do men, brothers?
ACT 2:38 And Peter said to them, Repent, and each of you be immersed in the name of Jesus Christ for a release of sins, and you shall receive the present of the holy spirit!
ACT 2:39 For to you is the promise, and to your children, and to all the ones far away, as many as should call on the Lord our God.
ACT 2:40 And with many more other words he testified and appealed, saying, Be delivered from this crooked generation.
ACT 2:41 The ones indeed then gladly receiving his word were immersed. And about three thousand souls were added in that day.
ACT 2:42 And they were attending constantly in the teaching of the apostles, and in the fellowship, and in the breaking of bread, and in the prayers.
ACT 2:43 And fear came to every soul. And many miracles and signs took place through the apostles.
ACT 2:44 But all the ones believing were together, and had all in common.
ACT 2:45 And the possessions and the things of substance they sold, and parted them to all in so far as anyone had need.
ACT 2:46 And by day attending constantly with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread in their houses, they shared provision with exultation and simplicity of heart,
ACT 2:47 praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added the ones being delivered daily to the assembly.
ACT 3:1 And together Peter and John ascended unto the temple at the hour of prayer - the ninth.
ACT 3:2 And a certain man being lame from his mother's belly was borne, whom they put daily at the door of the temple being called Beautiful, to ask charity from the ones entering into the temple.
ACT 3:3 Who seeing Peter and John being about to enter into the temple, asked charity.
ACT 3:4 And Peter gazing at him with John, said, Look at us!
ACT 3:5 And he waited for them, expecting to receive something from them.
ACT 3:6 But Peter said, Silver and gold does not exist to me; but what I have this I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth arise and walk!
ACT 3:7 And laying hold of him by the right hand, he raised him. And immediately his bases and ankles were solidified.
ACT 3:8 And leaping up, he stood and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
ACT 3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
ACT 3:10 And they recognized him, that this one was the one sitting down for charity at the Beautiful Gate of the temple. And they were filled with stupefaction and astonishment over the thing having happened to him.
ACT 3:11 And of the lame man who was healed holding Peter and John, all the people ran together to them unto the stoa being called Solomon's, utterly astonished.
ACT 3:12 And seeing, Peter responded to the people, Men, Israelites, why do you marvel at this? or why gaze upon us as if it was by our own power or piety making him to walk?
ACT 3:13 The God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus; whom you delivered up, and denied him in front of Pilate, having adjudged to release that one.
ACT 3:14 But you denied the holy and just one, and asked for a man, a murderer to be granted to you;
ACT 3:15 and the chief of life you killed, whom God raised from the dead; of which we are witnesses.
ACT 3:16 And by the belief of his name, this one whom you view and know, he made solid by his name; and the belief which is through him he gave to him this wholeness before all of you.
ACT 3:17 And now, brothers, I know that according to ignorance you acted, as also your rulers.
ACT 3:18 But what God preannounced through the mouth of all his prophets, for the Christ to suffer, he fulfilled thus.
ACT 3:19 Repent then, and turn, for the wiping away of your sins! so that times of respite should come from the presence of the Lord;
ACT 3:20 and he should send the one who was publicly proclaimed to you - Jesus Christ;
ACT 3:21 whom heaven must indeed receive till times of restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of all his holy prophets from the eon.
ACT 3:22 For Moses indeed said to the fathers that, The Lord your God shall raise up a prophet unto you from your brothers, as me; him you shall hear according to all as much as he should speak to you.
ACT 3:23 And it shall be every soul, which ever should not hearken to that prophet, shall be utterly destroyed from the people.
ACT 3:24 And indeed all the prophets from Samuel and of the ones in order, as many as spoke, also announced these days.
ACT 3:25 You are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant of which God ordained to our fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your seed shall be blessed all the families of the earth.
ACT 3:26 To you first God, having raised up his servant Jesus, sent him blessing you, in the turning each from your wickednesses.
ACT 4:1 And of their speaking to the people, the priests stood by them, and the commandant of the temple, and the Sadducees,
ACT 4:2 being worked up because of their teaching the people, and announcing in Jesus the resurrection of the dead.
ACT 4:3 And they put upon them hands, and put them in keep until the morrow; for it was evening already.
ACT 4:4 But many of the ones hearing the word believed; and the number of the men was about five thousand.
ACT 4:5 And it came to pass on the morrow, their rulers gathered together, and elders, and scribes in Jerusalem,
ACT 4:6 and Annas the chief priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the family of the chief priest.
ACT 4:7 And having stood them in the midst, they inquired, By what power, or in whose name do you this?
ACT 4:8 Then Peter, filled of holy spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people, and elders of Israel.
ACT 4:9 If we today are questioned about a good work of the infirm man, by how this one was delivered;
ACT 4:10 let it be made known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this one this man stands before you in health.
ACT 4:11 This one is the stone being treated with contempt by you the ones building, the one becoming for head of the corner.
ACT 4:12 And there is not deliverance in no one other. For neither is there another name under the heaven being given to men by which we must be delivered.
ACT 4:13 And viewing the open manner of Peter and John, and perceiving that they are illiterate men and common people, they marvelled; and they recognized them, that they were with Jesus.
ACT 4:14 But seeing the man with them standing having been cured, they had nothing to contradict.
ACT 4:15 And having bid them to go forth outside the sanhedrin, they engaged with one another,
ACT 4:16 saying, What shall we do to these men? For indeed a known sign having taken place through them is apparent to all the ones dwelling in Jerusalem; and we are not able to deny it.
ACT 4:17 But that it should not be spread unto more among the people, we should threaten them with intimidation to no longer speak in this name to anyone of men.
ACT 4:18 And having called them, they summoned them to not utter a sound altogether nor to teach in the name of Jesus.
ACT 4:19 But Peter and John answering to them said, If it is just before God to hearken to you rather than God, you judge!
ACT 4:20 For we are not able what we know and hear to not speak.
ACT 4:21 And the one adding threats released them, finding nothing how they shall punish them, on account of the people. For all glorified God over the thing having taken place.
ACT 4:22 For the man was more than forty years old upon which had taken place this sign of healing.
ACT 4:23 And having been released, they came to their own, and reported as much as the chief priests and the elders said to them.
ACT 4:24 And having heard, with one accord they lifted a voice to God, and said, O master, you are God, the one making the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all the things in them.
ACT 4:25 The one having spoken through the mouth of David your servant, saying, Why do nations neigh, and peoples meditate upon vain things?
ACT 4:26 The kings of the earth stood, and the rulers gathered together against the Lord, and against his Christ.
ACT 4:27 For they gathered together in truth against the holy one, your servant Jesus, whom you anointed - both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with nations, and peoples of Israel,
ACT 4:28 to do as much as your hand and your counsel predefined to take place.
ACT 4:29 And at present, O Lord, look upon their intimidations! and grant to your servants with every open manner to speak your word!
ACT 4:30 in the stretching out of your hand for healing; and signs and miracles to take place through the name of your holy servant Jesus.
ACT 4:31 And in their beseeching the place in which they were being gathered together was shaken; and they were all filled of holy spirit, and they spoke the word of God with confidence.
ACT 4:32 And the multitude of the ones believing was of one heart and soul. And not even one said anything existing to him to be his own; but all things were in common to them.
ACT 4:33 And with great power the apostles rendered testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus; and great favor was upon all of them.
ACT 4:34 For neither anyone lacking existed among them. For as many as were owners of places or houses existing to them, by selling they brought the value of the things being sold,
ACT 4:35 and put them by the feet of the apostles. And it was distributed to each in so far as any should have need.
ACT 4:36 And Joses, the one being called Barnabas by the apostles, (which is, being translated, Son of Comfort,) a Levite, a Cypriot by race,
ACT 4:37 having sold a field existing to him, brought the thing, and put it by the feet of the apostles.
ACT 5:1 And a certain man, Ananias by name, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession.
ACT 5:2 And he pilfered from the value. And his wife being fully conscious of it, and having brought a certain part, put it by the feet of the apostles.
ACT 5:3 And Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart for you to lie against the holy spirit, and to pilfer from the value of the place?
ACT 5:4 Remaining in your possession did it not remain? and for selling it existed in your authority? Why is it that you put this thing in your heart? You lied not to men, but to God.
ACT 5:5 And Ananias hearing these words, falling down, expired. And there became great fear upon all the ones hearing these things.
ACT 5:6 And having risen up, the younger men wrapped him, and having brought him forth, entombed him.
ACT 5:7 And it came to pass about three hours interval, and his wife, not knowing what happened, entered.
ACT 5:8 And Peter responded to her, Tell me if you rendered so much for the place? And she said, Yes, for so much.
ACT 5:9 And Peter said to her, Why is it that you joined in one accord to test the spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of the ones burying your husband are at the door, and shall bring you forth.
ACT 5:10 And she fell immediately by his feet, and expired. And the young men having entered, found her dead, and, having brought her forth they entombed her by her husband.
ACT 5:11 And there became great fear upon the entire assembly, and upon all the ones hearing these things.
ACT 5:12 And by the hands of the apostles there took place signs and miracles among the people - many; (and they were with one accord all together in the stoa of Solomon;
ACT 5:13 but of the rest no one dared join them; but the people magnified them;
ACT 5:14 and more were added believing in the Lord - multitudes of men and also of women.)
ACT 5:15 so as in the squares to bring forth the weak, and to put them upon beds and litters, that at the coming of Peter even the shadow should overshadow some one of them.
ACT 5:16 And came together also the multitudes of the cities all around into Jerusalem, bringing the weak, and ones being mobbed by unclean spirits; who were cured all together.
ACT 5:17 And having risen up, the chief priest and all the ones with him, ( which is the sect of the Sadducees,) were filled of zeal.
ACT 5:18 And they put their hands upon the apostles, and put them in a public keep.
ACT 5:19 But an angel of the Lord by night opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out said,
ACT 5:20 Go, and standing, speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life!
ACT 5:21 And having heard, they entered at the dawn into the temple, and were teaching. But having come, the chief priest and the ones with him, called together the sanhedrin, and all the council of elders of the sons of Israel, and sent to the jail for them to be brought.
ACT 5:22 And the officers having come, did not find them in the prison. And having returned, they reported,
ACT 5:23 saying that, Indeed the jail we found locked with all security, and the keepers standing before the doors; but having opened we found no one inside.
ACT 5:24 And as they heard these words, both the priest and the commandant of the temple and the chief priests were perplexed concerning them, whatever this might be.
ACT 5:25 And having come, a certain one reported to them, saying that, Behold, the men whom you put in the prison are in the temple standing and teaching the people.
ACT 5:26 Then the commandant having gone forth with the officers led them, not with force; for they feared the people, that they should not be stoned.
ACT 5:27 And having brought them, they stood them in the sanhedrin. And the chief priest asked them,
ACT 5:28 saying, Was it not with an exhortation we exhorted to you to not teach in this name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you want to bring upon us the blood of this man.
ACT 5:29 And answering Peter and the apostles said, It is necessary to yield obedience to God rather than men.
ACT 5:30 The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you laid hands upon having hanged upon a treetimber..
ACT 5:31 This one God, chief and deliverer, exalted by his right hand, to give repentance to Israel and release of sins.
ACT 5:32 And we are his witnesses of these things; but also the holy spirit, which God gave to the ones yielding obedience to him.
ACT 5:33 And the ones hearing were sawed through, and consulted to do away with them.
ACT 5:34 And having risen up, a certain one in the sanhedrin, a Pharisee, by name Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, esteemed by all the people, urged the apostles to be made to go outside a little while.
ACT 5:35 And he said to them, Men, Israelites, take heed to yourselves over these men what you are about to act!
ACT 5:36 For before these days Theudas rose up, naming himself to be somebody, in whom a number of men leaned towards, about four hundred, who were done away with. And all, as many as were persuaded by him, were parted, and came to nothing.
ACT 5:37 After this Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census, and separated a fit amount of people to go after him. And that one perished; and all, as many as were persuaded by him, were dispersed.
ACT 5:38 And at present I say to you, Abstain from these men, and allow them! for if this counsel should be of men, then this work will be broken up.
ACT 5:39 But if it is of God, you will not be able to break it up; lest at any time even you be found fighters against God.
ACT 5:40 And they were persuaded by him. And having called the apostles, having flayed them, they exhorted them to not speak in the name of Jesus, and they released them.
ACT 5:41 Indeed then they went rejoicing from in front of the sanhedrin, that they were deemed worthy for the name of Jesus to be dishonored.
ACT 5:42 And every day in the temple, and by house, they ceased not teaching and announcing good news of Jesus the Christ.
ACT 6:1 And in these days, of the multiplying of the disciples, there took place a grumbling of the Hellenists against the Hebrews, that their widows were overlooked in the daily service.
ACT 6:2 And the twelve having called the multitude of the disciples, said, It is not pleasing for us leaving behind the word of God, to serve tables.
ACT 6:3 Number brothers then, men from among you being witnesses - seven men, full of holy spirit and wisdom, whom we will place over this need!
ACT 6:4 But we in the prayer and in the service of the word will attend constantly.
ACT 6:5 And the word was pleasing before all the multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of belief and holy spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a convert of Antioch,
ACT 6:6 whom they stood before the apostles. And having prayed, they placed hands on them.
ACT 6:7 And the word of God grew; and the number of the disciples was multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly; also a great multitude of the priests hearkened to the belief.
ACT 6:8 And Stephen, full of belief and power, did miracles and great signs among the people.
ACT 6:9 And rose up certain ones from the synagogue being called, Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of the ones from Cilicia, and Asia, debating with Stephen.
ACT 6:10 And they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the spirit which he spoke.
ACT 6:11 Then they suborned men, saying that, We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God.
ACT 6:12 And they agitated together the people, and the elders, and the scribes; and attending to it, they seized him, and brought him to the sanhedrin.
ACT 6:13 And they set false witnesses, saying, This man does not cease speaking blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law.
ACT 6:14 For we have heard him saying, that this Jesus the Nazarene shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered up to us.
ACT 6:15 And having gazed onto him, all the ones being seated in the sanhedrin beheld his face as the face of an angel.
ACT 7:1 And the chief priest said, Do then these things so hold to?
ACT 7:2 And he said, Men, brothers, and fathers, hearken! The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, being in Mesopotamia before his dwelling in Haran.
ACT 7:3 And he said to him, Go forth from out of your land, and from your kin, and come into a land which I will show to you!
ACT 7:4 Then having gone forth from the land of the Chaldeans, he dwelt in Haran. And from there, after the dying of his father, he displaced him into this land, into which you now dwell.
ACT 7:5 And he did not give to him an inheritance in it, nor a foot stool. And he promised to give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him - there not being a child to him.
ACT 7:6 And God thus spoke, that his seed will be a sojourner in an alien land; and they shall enslave it, and inflict evil for four hundred years.
ACT 7:7 And the nation which ever shall enslave them I shall judge, said God. And after these things they shall come forth, and shall serve to me in this place.
ACT 7:8 And he gave to him a covenant of circumcision. And thus he engendered Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac engendered Jacob; and Jacob the twelve patriarchs.
ACT 7:9 And the patriarchs, envying Joseph, rendered him into Egypt. And God was with him,
ACT 7:10 and delivered him from out of all his afflictions, and gave to him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh king of Egypt; and he placed him as leader over Egypt and his whole house.
ACT 7:11 And there came a famine upon the entire land of Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction. And our fathers did not find fodder.
ACT 7:12 And Jacob hearing of their being grain in Egypt, sent forth our fathers a first time.
ACT 7:13 And in the second time Joseph made himself known to his brothers; and the family of Joseph became apparent to Pharaoh.
ACT 7:14 And Joseph having sent, called back his father Jacob, and all his kin, in total seventy five souls.
ACT 7:15 And Jacob went down unto Egypt, and he and our fathers came to an end.
ACT 7:16 And they were transferred unto Shechem, and were put in the tomb which Abraham purchased for a value of silver from the sons of Emmor of Shechem.
ACT 7:17 And as the time approached of the promise of which God swore by an oath to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
ACT 7:18 until of which there rose up another king who knew not Joseph.
ACT 7:19 This one having dealt subtly with our race, inflicted evil upon our fathers, to make them expose their babies, so that they should not be brought forth alive.
ACT 7:20 In which time Moses was born, and was fair to God, who was reared three months in the house of his father.
ACT 7:21 And he being exposed, the daughter of Pharaoh took him up, and she reared him herself for a son.
ACT 7:22 And Moses was instructed in all wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in works.
ACT 7:23 And as forty years of time was filled up to him, it ascended unto his heart to visit his brothers of the sons of Israel.
ACT 7:24 And beholding a certain one being wronged, he defended and executed vengeance for the one being harassed, having struck the Egyptian.
ACT 7:25 And he thought his brothers would perceive that God is giving deliverance to them through his hand; but they perceived not.
ACT 7:26 And the following day he appeared to ones doing combat, and he forced them to peace, having said, Men, you are brothers, why wrong one another?
ACT 7:27 But the one wronging the neighbor, thrust him away, having said, Who placed you ruler and magistrate over us?
ACT 7:28 Do you want to do away with me, in which manner you did away with the Egyptian yesterday?
ACT 7:29 And Moses fled at this word, and became a sojourner in the land of Midian, of which place he engendered two sons.
ACT 7:30 And forty years being fulfilled, there appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sinai an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire of a bush.
ACT 7:31 And Moses beholding, marvelled at the vision. And of his coming forward to study it, there came the voice of the Lord to him, saying,
ACT 7:32 I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses having become trembling, dared not to study it.
ACT 7:33 And the Lord said to him, Untie the sandal of your feet; for the place in which you stand is holy ground!
ACT 7:34 In beholding, I saw the ill-treatment of my people in Egypt, and I heard their moaning, and I came down to rescue them. And now come, I shall send you to Egypt.
ACT 7:35 This Moses whom they denied, having said, Who placed you ruler and magistrate? This one God sent as ruler and ransomer by the hand of an angel appearing to him in the bush.
ACT 7:36 This one led them out, having done miracles and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the red sea, and in the wilderness forty years.
ACT 7:37 This is the Moses having said to the sons of Israel, The lord our God shall raise up a prophet to you from out of your brothers as me.
ACT 7:38 This is the one being among the assembly in the wilderness with the angel speaking to him on mount Sinai, and of the ones of our fathers; who received living oracles to give to us.
ACT 7:39 To whom our fathers wanted not to become subjects, but thrust him away, and turned their hearts unto Egypt,
ACT 7:40 having said to Aaron, Make us gods who shall go before us; for this Moses who led us out of the land of Egypt, we know not what has happened to him.
ACT 7:41 And they made a calf image in those days, and led up a sacrifice to the idol, and made merry in the works of their hands.
ACT 7:42 And God turned and delivered them up to serve the military of the heaven; as it has been written in the book of the prophets, Did you not offer to me victims for slaughter and sacrifices for forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
ACT 7:43 And you take up the tent of Molech, and the star of your god Remphan, the models of which you made to do obeisance to them; and I will displace you beyond Babylon.
ACT 7:44 The tent of testimony was with our fathers in the wilderness, as set in order by the one speaking to Moses, to make it according to the model which he had seen.
ACT 7:45 Which also our fathers relieving brought in after Joshua in the taking possession of the nations, whom God pushed out from in front of our fathers, until the days of David;
ACT 7:46 who found favor before God, and asked to find a tent for the God of Jacob.
ACT 7:47 But Solomon built to him a house.
ACT 7:48 But the highest does not dwell in temples made by hands; as the prophet says,
ACT 7:49 The heaven is my throne, and the earth a footstool for my feet. What house will you build to me? says the Lord, or what place for my rest?
ACT 7:50 Did not my hand make all these things?
ACT 7:51 O hard-necked and uncircumcised in the heart and in the ears, you continually rush headlong against the holy spirit. As your fathers, so also you.
ACT 7:52 Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed the ones preannouncing concerning the advent of the just one; of whom you now have become betrayers and murderers.
ACT 7:53 Who received the law by disposition of angels, and kept not.
ACT 7:54 And hearing these things, they were sawed through in their hearts, and gnashed their teeth against him.
ACT 7:55 And being full of holy spirit, having gazed into the heaven, he beheld the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right of God.
ACT 7:56 And he said, Behold, I view the heavens being opened, and the son of man standing at the right of God.
ACT 7:57 And crying out with a great voice, they held their ears, and advanced with one accord against him.
ACT 7:58 And having cast him outside the city, they stoned him. And the witnesses put aside their garments by the feet of a young man, being called Saul.
ACT 7:59 And they stoned Stephen, the one calling upon and saying, O Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!
ACT 7:60 And having placed the knees, he cried out a great voice, O Lord, you should not set this sin to them. And this having said, he went to sleep.
ACT 8:1 And Saul was assenting with his removal. And came to pass in that day a great persecution against the assembly in Jerusalem; and all were dispersed throughout the places of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
ACT 8:2 And reverent men collected up Stephen, and were making a great beating of the breast over him.
ACT 8:3 But Saul laid waste the assembly entering by houses; dragging both men and women, he delivered them up into prison.
ACT 8:4 The ones then being scattered went through announcing good news - the word.
ACT 8:5 And Philip going down unto a city of Samaria, proclaimed to them the Christ.
ACT 8:6 And the multitudes took heed to the things being said by Philip with one accord, in their hearing and seeing the signs which he did.
ACT 8:7 For many of the ones having unclean spirits, the unclean spirits came forth yelling with a great voice; and many having been disabled and lame were cured.
ACT 8:8 And came to pass a great joy in that city.
ACT 8:9 And a certain man, by name Simon, beforehand in the city was practicing magic, and amazing the nation of Samaria, saying himself to be some great one.
ACT 8:10 To whom all gave heed from small unto great, saying, This one is the power of the great God.
ACT 8:11 And they were giving heed to him, on account of the spending a fit amount of time with the magic to amaze them.
ACT 8:12 And when they believed, with Philip announcing good news - the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were immersed, both men and women.
ACT 8:13 And Simon even himself believed. And having been immersed, he was constantly attending to Philip. And viewing works of power and signs being done, he was amazed.
ACT 8:14 And the apostles in Jerusalem having heard that Samaria received the word of God, sent to them Peter and John.
ACT 8:15 Who having gone down prayed concerning them, that they should receive holy spirit.
ACT 8:16 For not yet was it falling upon any one of them; but only being immersed in the name of the Lord Jesus.
ACT 8:17 Then they placed hands upon them, and they received holy spirit.
ACT 8:18 And Simon seeing that through the laying on of the hands of the apostles the holy spirit was given, he brought to them things,
ACT 8:19 saying, Give to me also this authority, that whom ever I should place the hands should receive holy spirit.
ACT 8:20 And Peter said to him, May your money be with you unto destruction, for you thought the gift of God is to be acquired by things.
ACT 8:21 There is not a portion to you nor lot in this matter; for your heart is not straight before God.
ACT 8:22 Repent then from this your evil, and beseech God, if then the thought of your heart shall be forgiven you!
ACT 8:23 For in bile of bitterness, and bond of unrighteousness I see you being.
ACT 8:24 And responding Simon said, You beseech for me to the Lord, so that nothing should come upon me of which you have said!
ACT 8:25 They indeed then, testifying and having spoken the word of the Lord, returned unto Jerusalem, and in many towns of the Samaritans they announced good news.
ACT 8:26 And an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Rise up, and go according to the south unto the way going down from Jerusalem unto Gaza - this is wilderness!
ACT 8:27 And having risen up he went. And behold, there was an Ethiopian man, a eunuch, a mighty one of Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasury, who had come to do obeisance in Jerusalem.
ACT 8:28 And he was returning, and sitting upon his chariot. And he read the prophet Isaiah.
ACT 8:29 And the spirit said to Philip, Draw near and join to this chariot.
ACT 8:30 And running up, Philip heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and said, Then indeed you know what you read?
ACT 8:31 And he said, For how might I be able, unless someone should guide me? And he appealed to Philip having ascended to sit with him.
ACT 8:32 And the section of the scripture which he read was this, As a sheep unto slaughter he was led; and as a lamb before the one shearing it is voiceless, so he opens not his mouth.
ACT 8:33 In his humiliation his judgment was taken away. And who shall describe his generation, for his life is taken from the earth?
ACT 8:34 And the eunuch responding to Philip, said, I beseech you, concerning whom does this prophet speak? concerning himself, or concerning some other?
ACT 8:35 And Philip having opened his mouth, and having begun from this scripture, announced good news to him - Jesus.
ACT 8:36 And as they were going along the way, they came upon some water. And the eunuch says, Behold, water; what prevents me to be immersed?
ACT 8:37 And Philip said, If you believe of your entire heart, it is allowed. And responding he said, I believe Jesus Christ to be the son of God.
ACT 8:38 And he urged the chariot to stop. And both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he immersed him.
ACT 8:39 And when they ascended from out of the water, spirit of the Lord seized Philip by force, and the eunuch saw him not any longer; for he went his way rejoicing.
ACT 8:40 And Philip was found in Azotus. And going through, he announced good news to all the cities until he came unto Caesarea.
ACT 9:1 And Saul still breathing intimidation and carnage against the disciples of the Lord, having come forward to the chief priest,
ACT 9:2 asked from him letters for Damascus to the synagogues, so that if any should be found being of the way, both men and women, having bound them he should lead them unto Jerusalem.
ACT 9:3 And in the going, it happened as he approached to Damascus. And suddenly flashed about him light from the heaven.
ACT 9:4 And having fallen upon the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?
ACT 9:5 And he said, Who are you, O Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you persecute. It is hard to you to kick against spurs.
ACT 9:6 And trembling and distraught, he said, O Lord, what do you want me to do? And the Lord said to him, But rise up and enter into the city, and it will be told to you what you must do!
ACT 9:7 But the men journeying with him stood dumb, hearing indeed the voice, but viewing no one.
ACT 9:8 And Saul rose from the ground; and his eyes having been opened, he saw no one. And leading him by the hand, they brought him unto Damascus.
ACT 9:9 And he was three days not seeing, and he ate not nor drank.
ACT 9:10 And there was a certain disciple in Damascus, by name Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias! And he said, Behold, it is I, O Lord.
ACT 9:11 And the Lord said to him, Rise up, go unto the street called, Straight, and seek in the house of Judas for one named Saul of Tarsus! for behold he prays,
ACT 9:12 and saw in a vision a man, by name Ananias entering and placing upon him a hand, so that he should gain sight.
ACT 9:13 And Ananias responded, O Lord, I have heard from many concerning this man, how many evils he did to your holy ones in Jerusalem.
ACT 9:14 And here he has authority by the chief priests to bind all the ones calling upon your name.
ACT 9:15 And the Lord said to him, Go! For this one is a utensil of choice to me, to bear my name before nations, and kings, and the sons of Israel.
ACT 9:16 For I will show plainly to him how much he must suffer for my name.
ACT 9:17 And Ananias went forth, and entered into the house; and having placed hands upon him, he said, O brother Saul, the Lord has sent me, the one appearing to you in the way by which you came, that you should gain sight, and should be filled of holy spirit.
ACT 9:18 And immediately there fell away from his eyes as it were scales. And he gained sight, and having risen up, he was immersed.
ACT 9:19 And taking nourishment, he strengthed. And Saul existed with the disciples in Damascus some days.
ACT 9:20 And immediately in the synagogues he was proclaiming the Christ, that this one is the son of God.
ACT 9:21 And all the ones hearing were amazed, and said; Is not this the one ravaging in Jerusalem the ones calling upon this name, and for this has come here, that he should lead them bound unto the chief priests?
ACT 9:22 And Saul the more was empowered, and confounded the Jews dwelling in Damascus, instructing that this is the Christ.
ACT 9:23 Now when a fit amount of days were fulfilled, the Jews advised to do away with him.
ACT 9:24 And their plot was made known to Saul. And they were closely watching the gates both day and night so as to do away with him.
ACT 9:25 And the disciples taking him by night, lowered him through the wall, letting him down in a small basket.
ACT 9:26 And Saul having arrived in Jerusalem, attempted to join the disciples. And all were afraid of him, not believing that he is a disciple.
ACT 9:27 But Barnabas, having taken him, brought him to the apostles, and described to them how in the way he saw the Lord, and that he spoke to him, and how in Damascus he spoke openly in the name of Jesus.
ACT 9:28 And he was with them entering into Jerusalem,
ACT 9:29 and speaking openly in the name of the Lord Jesus. And he spoke and debated with the Hellenists; but they attempted to do away with him.
ACT 9:30 And knowing, the brothers led him down unto Caesarea, and they sent him to Tarsus.
ACT 9:31 Indeed then the assemblies according to the whole of Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, being built up and going in the fear of the Lord; and in the comfort of the holy spirit they were multiplied.
ACT 9:32 And it came to pass, Peter going through all places, went down also to the holy ones dwelling in Lydda.
ACT 9:33 And he found there a certain man, Aeneas by name, who was for eight years reclining upon a litter, who was disabled.
ACT 9:34 And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you. Rise up, and make your own bed! And immediately he rose up.
ACT 9:35 And all the ones dwelling Lydda and Saron saw him, who turned unto the Lord.
ACT 9:36 And in Joppa there was a certain disciple, by name Tabitha, which being interpreted is called Dorcas. She was full of good works and charity which she did.
ACT 9:37 And it came to pass in those days, she having weakened, died. And having bathed her, they put her in an upper room.
ACT 9:38 And Lydda being near Joppa, the disciples having heard that Peter is in it, sent two men to him, appealing to not be reluctant to go unto them.
ACT 9:39 And having risen up Peter came together with them. Whom having arrived, they led up to the upper room. And there stood beside him all the widows weeping, and displaying inner garments and cloaks, as many as Dorcas made while being with them.
ACT 9:40 And Peter having put all outside, having placed his knees, he prayed. And having turned to the body, he said, Tabitha, rise up! And she opened her eyes. And seeing Peter, she sat erect.
ACT 9:41 And having given to her his hand, he raised her up. And having called the holy ones and the widows, he presented her living.
ACT 9:42 And it became known throughout the whole of Joppa; and many believed upon the Lord.
ACT 9:43 And it came to pass that he abided a fit amount of days in Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner.
ACT 10:1 And a certain man was there in Caesarea, by name Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort being called, Italic;
ACT 10:2 pious and fearing God with all his house, both performing much charity to the people, and beseeching God always.
ACT 10:3 He beheld in a vision openly about the ninth hour of the day an angel of God entering to him, and having said to him, Cornelius.
ACT 10:4 And gazing upon him, and becoming thrown into fear, he said, What is it, O Lord? And he said to him, Your prayers and your charity ascended for a memorial before God.
ACT 10:5 And now send forth men unto Joppa, and fetch Simon, who is called Peter.
ACT 10:6 This one lodges with a certain Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea. This one shall tell to you what is necessary for you to do.
ACT 10:7 And when the angel speaking to Cornelius departed, having called two of his servants, and a pious soldier of the ones attending constantly to him;
ACT 10:8 and having described to them all things, he sent them unto Joppa.
ACT 10:9 And the next day, as those are journeying, and approaching the city, Peter ascended upon the roof to pray around the sixth hour.
ACT 10:10 And he became hungry, and wanted to taste. And as those were making preparations, there fell upon him a change of state.
ACT 10:11 And he viewed the heaven being opened, and there descending unto him a certain item as a great piece of cloth, the four corners being tied, and being lowered unto the earth;
ACT 10:12 in which were all the four-footed creatures of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the reptiles, and the birds of the heaven.
ACT 10:13 And there came a voice to him, Rise up, Peter; sacrifice and eat!
ACT 10:14 And Peter said, By no means, O Lord; for at no time ate I anything common or unclean.
ACT 10:15 And a voice again a second time came to him, What God cleansed, you are not to make unclean!
ACT 10:16 And this happened unto three times. And again the item was taken up into the heaven.
ACT 10:17 And as Peter was perplexed within himself what ever the vision may be which he beheld, that behold, the men being sent from Cornelius having inquired about the house of Simon, stood at the vestibule.
ACT 10:18 And calling out they inquired, Does Simon, the one being called Peter, lodge here?
ACT 10:19 And Peter pondering over the vision, the spirit said to him, Behold, three men seek you;
ACT 10:20 and having risen up, go down, and go with them, examining nothing! for I have sent them.
ACT 10:21 And Peter having gone down to the men, said, Behold, I am whom you seek. What is the reason for which you are at hand?
ACT 10:22 And they said, Cornelius a centurion, a just man, and one fearing God, and borne witness by the entire nation of the Jews, received a divine message by a holy angel to fetch you unto his house, and to hear words from you.
ACT 10:23 Then having invited them, he lodged them. And the next day Peter went forth with them, and certain ones of the brothers from Joppa went together with him.
ACT 10:24 And the next day they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius was expecting them, having called together his relatives and important friends.
ACT 10:25 And as it came to pass at Peter entering, having met him, Cornelius, having fallen at the feet, did obeisance.
ACT 10:26 But Peter raised him, saying, Rise up! I also myself am a man.
ACT 10:27 And accompanying him, he entered and found many were come together.
ACT 10:28 And he said to them, You know that it is unlawful for a man, a Jew, to join or approach a philistine. And God showed to me not to call a man common or unclean.
ACT 10:29 Therefore also indisputably I came, having been fetched. I inquire then to what matter you fetched me?
ACT 10:30 And Cornelius said, From four days ago until this hour I was fasting, and the ninth hour praying in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright attire.
ACT 10:31 And he says, Cornelius, your prayer was listened to, and your gifts of charity were remembered before God.
ACT 10:32 Send forth then unto Joppa, and call for Simon, who is called Peter! This one lodges in the house of Simon a tanner by the sea, who, having come, shall speak to you.
ACT 10:33 Immediately then I sent to you; and you did well having come. Now then, all we before God are at hand to hear all the things assigned to you by God.
ACT 10:34 And Peter having opened his mouth, said, In truth I am overtaken that God is not one who discriminates;
ACT 10:35 but in every nation fearing him, and practicing righteousness, it is acceptable to him.
ACT 10:36 The word which he sent to the sons of Israel, announcing good news, peace through Jesus Christ - this one is Lord of all.
ACT 10:37 You know the thing taking place in all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the immersion which John proclaimed;
ACT 10:38 Jesus, the one from Nazareth, how God anointed him in holy spirit and power; who went through benefiting and healing all the ones being overpowered by the devil; for God was with him.
ACT 10:39 And we are witnesses of all which he did both in the region of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they did away with by hanging upon a tree.
ACT 10:40 This one God raised up in the third day, and appointed him to become apparent;
ACT 10:41 not to all the people, but to witnesses, being inaugurated by God, to us who ate with and drank with him after his rising up from the dead.
ACT 10:42 And he exhorted us to proclaim to the people, and to testify that he is the one being confirmed by God as judge of the living and dead.
ACT 10:43 To him all the prophets bear witness, to receive a release of sins through his name for every one believing in him.
ACT 10:44 While Peter was speaking these things, the holy spirit fell upon all the ones hearing the word.
ACT 10:45 And the believers of the circumcision were amazed, as many as came with Peter, that also the present of the holy spirit has been poured out upon the nations.
ACT 10:46 For they heard them speaking languages, and magnifying God. Then Peter responded,
ACT 10:47 Shall water be able to be restrained to anyone of these to not be immersed, who received the holy spirit as also we?
ACT 10:48 And he assigned them to be immersed in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to remain some days.
ACT 11:1 And the apostles heard, and the brothers being in Judea that also the nations received the word of God.
ACT 11:2 And when Peter ascended unto Jerusalem, the ones of the circumcision argued with him,
ACT 11:3 saying that, To men having an uncircumcised condition you entered unto, and ate with them.
ACT 11:4 And beginning, Peter displayed to them in order, saying,
ACT 11:5 I was in the city of Joppa praying. And I beheld in a change of state a vision, a certain item coming down as a great piece of cloth, being lowered by four corners from the heaven; and it came as far as me.
ACT 11:6 On which having gazed upon, I contemplated, and saw the four-footed creatures of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the reptiles, and the birds of the heaven.
ACT 11:7 And I heard a voice saying to me, Having risen up, Peter, sacrifice and eat!
ACT 11:8 And I said, By no means, O Lord; for all common or unclean at no time entered into my mouth.
ACT 11:9 And the voice responded to me a second time from out of heaven, What God cleansed, you are not to make unclean!
ACT 11:10 And this happened unto three times; and again it was pulled up all together into the heaven.
ACT 11:11 And behold, immediately three men stood at the house in which I was, ones being sent from Caesarea to me.
ACT 11:12 And the spirit said to me to come together with them, examining nothing. And went with me also these six brothers, and we entered into the house of the man.
ACT 11:13 And he reported to us how he beheld the angel in his house, standing and having said to him, Send men unto Joppa, and fetch Simon, the one called Peter,
ACT 11:14 who shall speak words to you by which you shall be delivered - you and all your house!
ACT 11:15 And in my beginning to speak, the holy spirit fell upon them, as also upon us in the beginning.
ACT 11:16 And I remembered the saying of the Lord, how he said, John indeed immersed in water, but you shall be immersed in holy spirit.
ACT 11:17 If then God gave to them the equal present as also to us having believed on the Lord Jesus Christ; then I, who was I to be able to restrain God?
ACT 11:18 And having heard these things, they were still, and they glorified God, saying, It is so indeed that also to the nations God gave repentance unto life.
ACT 11:19 The ones indeed then being disseminated because of the affliction taking place with Stephen went unto Phoenicia, and Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except only to Jews.
ACT 11:20 And there were certain men of them, Cypriots and Cyrenians, who having entered unto Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, announcing good news - the Lord Jesus.
ACT 11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them. And a great number having believed, turned unto the Lord.
ACT 11:22 And the word was heard in the ears of the assembly in Jerusalem concerning them. And they sent out Barnabas to go through unto Antioch.
ACT 11:23 Who, having come, and having seen the favor of God, rejoiced, and exhorted all to the attention of the heart to remain in the Lord.
ACT 11:24 For he was a good man, and full of holy spirit and of belief. And a fit multitude was added to the Lord.
ACT 11:25 And Barnabas went forth unto Tarsus, to search out Saul.
ACT 11:26 And having found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass to them to be gathered with the assembly a whole year, and to teach a fit multitude. And the disciples were first treated as Christians in Antioch.
ACT 11:27 And in these days came down from Jerusalem prophets unto Antioch.
ACT 11:28 And having arisen, one of them, by name Agabus, signified through the spirit a great famine about to be upon the entire world; which also came to pass under Claudius Caesar.
ACT 11:29 And the disciples, as any one was well-provided, each of them confirmed for service to send help to the brothers dwelling in Judea.
ACT 11:30 Which also they did, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
ACT 12:1 And at that time Herod the king put upon the hands to afflict some of the ones of the assembly.
ACT 12:2 And he did away with James the brother of John by the sword.
ACT 12:3 And having seen that it is pleasing to the Jews, he proceeded to seize also Peter, (and they were the days of the unleavened breads;)
ACT 12:4 whom also having laid hold of, he put into prison, having delivered him up to four parties of four soldiers to guard him, wanting after the passover to lead him to the people.
ACT 12:5 Then indeed Peter was given heed to in the prison. And there was intense prayer taking place by the assembly unto God for him.
ACT 12:6 And when Herod was about to lead him before them in that night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, being bound with two chains; and guards before the door kept the prison.
ACT 12:7 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by, and a light radiated in the building. And having struck the side of Peter, he roused him, saying, Rise up quickly! And the chains fell off of him from his hands.
ACT 12:8 And the angel said to him, Gird yourself and tie on your sandals! And he did so. And he says to him, Put on your cloak, and follow me!
ACT 12:9 And going forth, he followed him. And he knew not that it was true - the thing taking place by the angel; but he thought he was seeing a vision.
ACT 12:10 And having gone through a first guard and a second, they came unto the gate of iron, bearing into the city; which by itself opened to them. And having come forth, they went by one street; and immediately the angel separated from him.
ACT 12:11 And Peter having come to himself, said, Now I know truly that the Lord sent his angel, and rescued me from the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.
ACT 12:12 And being fully conscious, he came unto the house of Mary the mother of John, of the one being called Mark; where there were a fit amount being gathered together and praying.
ACT 12:13 And Peter having knocked at the door of the vestibule, there came forward a maidservant to listen, by name Rhoda.
ACT 12:14 And having recognized the voice of Peter, from the joy she did not open the vestibule, but having ran in, reported Peter to be standing before the vestibule.
ACT 12:15 But the ones by her said, You are maniacal. But she contended obstinately thus to have been. And they said, It is his angel.
ACT 12:16 But Peter continued knocking. And having opened, they beheld him, and were amazed.
ACT 12:17 And having waved to them with the hand to be quiet, he described to them how the Lord led him from out of the prison. And he said, Report to James and to the brothers these things! And having come forth he went to another place.
ACT 12:18 And day having come, there was not a little disturbance among the soldiers, to what then became of Peter.
ACT 12:19 And Herod seeking him anxiously, and not finding, having questioned the guards, urged them to be taken away. And having gone down from Judea to Caesarea, he spent time.
ACT 12:20 And Herod was violently incensed with the Tyrians and Sidonians. But with one accord they were at hand with him, and having persuaded Blastus the one over the bedroom of the king, they asked peace; because their place was maintained by the royalty.
ACT 12:21 And Herod appointed a day, having put on royal attire, and having sat upon the rostrum, delivered a public address to them.
ACT 12:22 And the people sounded out, saying The voice of a god, and not a man.
ACT 12:23 And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he gave not the glory to God. And becoming worm-eaten, he expired.
ACT 12:24 But the word of God grew and multiplied.
ACT 12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, having fulfilled the service, having taken along also John, the one called Mark.
ACT 13:1 And there were some in Antioch, according to the assembly being there, prophets and teachers - both Barnabas, and Simeon being called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrenian, and Manaen, a companion of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
ACT 13:2 And of their officiating to the Lord, and fasting, the holy spirit said, Separate indeed to me Barnabas and Saul for the work which I have called them.
ACT 13:3 Then fasting and praying, and placing the hands upon them, they dismissed them.
ACT 13:4 These indeed then having been sent by the holy spirit, went down unto Seleucia; and from there they sailed away unto Cyprus.
ACT 13:5 And having come unto Salamis, they announced the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews; and they also had John as an assistant.
ACT 13:6 And having gone through the island as far as Paphos, they found a certain magus, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-jesus;
ACT 13:7 who was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a discerning man. This one calling on Barnabas and Saul, sought anxiously to hear the word of God.
ACT 13:8 But Elymas the magus opposed them (for so is translated his name) seeking to turn aside the proconsul from the belief.
ACT 13:9 And Saul, the one also called Paul, being filled of holy spirit, and having gazed at him,
ACT 13:10 said, O one full of all treachery and all villainy, O son of the devil, O enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease turning aside the straight ways of the Lord?
ACT 13:11 And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately there fell upon him a mistiness and darkness; and leading about he sought ones to guide him by hand.
ACT 13:12 Then the proconsul beholding the thing having taken place, believed, being overwhelmed over the teaching of the Lord.
ACT 13:13 And the ones around Paul having embarked from Paphos, they came unto Perga of Pamphylia. And John retreating from them, returned unto Jerusalem.
ACT 13:14 And they, having gone through from Perga, came into Antioch of Pisidia. And having entered into the synagogue on the day of the sabbath, they sat.
ACT 13:15 And after the reading of the law and of the prophets, the chiefs of the synagogue sent to them, saying, Men, brothers, if there is a word in you of comfort to the people, speak!
ACT 13:16 And Paul having risen up, and waving the hand, said, Men, Israelites, and ones fearing God, hearken!
ACT 13:17 The God of this people Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people in the sojourn in the land of Egypt, and with a high arm led them out of it.
ACT 13:18 And about forty years time he bore with them in the wilderness.
ACT 13:19 And having demolished seven nations in the land of Canaan, he divided to them their land by lot.
ACT 13:20 And after these things, about four hundred and fifty years, he gave judges, until Samuel the prophet.
ACT 13:21 And from there they asked for a king. And God gave to them Saul son of Kis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin - for forty years.
ACT 13:22 And having removed him, he raised up to them David for king; to whom also having borne witness he said, I found David the one of Jesse, a man according to my heart, who shall do all my wants.
ACT 13:23 God from the seed of this one, according to the promise, raised up deliverance to Israel - a deliverer, Jesus.
ACT 13:24 Which John having publicly proclaimed before the presence of his entrance an immersion for repentance to all the people of Israel.
ACT 13:25 And as John was fulfilling the race, he said, Who do you suspect me to be? I am not he. But behold, comes after me, of whom I am not worthy to untie the sandal of his feet.
ACT 13:26 Men, brothers, sons of the race of Abraham, and the ones among you fearing God, to you the word of this deliverance was sent.
ACT 13:27 For the ones dwelling in Jerusalem, and their rulers, not having known this one, nor the voices of the prophets being read on every sabbath, they fulfilled them having judged him.
ACT 13:28 And not one reason for death having found, they asked Pilate to do away with him.
ACT 13:29 And as they finished all the things being written concerning him, lowering him from the tree, they put him into a tomb.
ACT 13:30 But God raised him from the dead -
ACT 13:31 who appeared for many days to the ones having gone up with him from Galilee unto Jerusalem, who are witnesses of him to the people.
ACT 13:32 And we announce you good news - the promise to the fathers taking place,
ACT 13:33 that this thing God has fulfilled to us their children, having raised up Jesus; and as in the second Psalm it has been written, You are my son, I today have engendered you.
ACT 13:34 And that he raised him from the dead, no longer to be about to return unto corruption, thus he has spoken that, I will give to you the trustworthy sacred things of David.
ACT 13:35 Wherefore also in another he says, You shall not give your sacred one to see corruption.
ACT 13:36 For David indeed having assisted his own generation by the counsel of God, went to sleep, and was added to his fathers, and saw corruption.
ACT 13:37 But the one whom God raised, did not see corruption.
ACT 13:38 Let it be made known then to you men, brothers, that through this one a release of sins is announced to you.
ACT 13:39 And from all things of which you were not able in the law of Moses to be justified, in this one every one believing is justified.
ACT 13:40 Take heed then, that it should not come upon you - the thing being spoken by the prophets,
ACT 13:41 Behold, O despisers, and wonder, and vanish! For a work I work during your days, which in no way should you believe if one should tell you in detail.
ACT 13:42 And exiting from out of the synagogue of the Jews, the nations appealed to them in the time between the sabbath to speak to them these things.
ACT 13:43 And the synagogue being dismissed, many of the Jews and worshiping converts followed Paul and Barnabas, who speaking, persuaded them to continue in the favor of God.
ACT 13:44 And on the coming sabbath, nearly all the city gathered to hear the word of God.
ACT 13:45 But the Jews beholding the multitudes, were filled with jealousy, and spoke against the things being spoken by Paul, disputing and blaspheming.
ACT 13:46 But speaking openly, Paul and Barnabas said, To you it was important first for the word of God to be spoken. But since you thrust it away, and do not judge yourselves worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn unto the nations.
ACT 13:47 For thus the Lord has given charge to us, saying, I have put you for a light of nations, for you to be for deliverance unto the end of the earth.
ACT 13:48 And hearing, the nations rejoiced, and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as were being arranged for life eternal believed.
ACT 13:49 And the word of the Lord was carried through the entire region.
ACT 13:50 But the Jews instigated the worshiping women, and the decent and the foremost men of the city, and roused up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and cast them from their borders.
ACT 13:51 And they having shaken off the dust of their feet against them, came unto Iconium.
ACT 13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy and holy spirit.
ACT 14:1 And it came to pass in Iconium, they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and spoke thus so as for a great multitude of both Jews and Hellenists to believe.
ACT 14:2 But the Jews resisting persuasion, roused up and afflicted the souls of the ones of nations against the brothers.
ACT 14:3 Then they spent a fit time speaking openly in the Lord, in the bearing witness to the word of his favor, granting signs and miracles to take place through their hands.
ACT 14:4 And the multitude of the city was split; and some were with the Jews, and some with the apostles.
ACT 14:5 And as there became a movement by the nations, and also of Jews with their rulers, to insult and to stone them,
ACT 14:6 being fully conscious, they took refuge in the cities of Lycaonia - Lystra and Derbe, and the place round about.
ACT 14:7 And there they were announcing good news.
ACT 14:8 And a certain man in Lystra, disabled in the feet, sat; one being lame from the belly of his mother, who at no time walked.
ACT 14:9 This one heard Paul speaking; who having gazed upon him, and seeing that he had belief to be delivered,
ACT 14:10 said with a great voice, Rise upon your feet straight! And he leaped up and walked.
ACT 14:11 And the multitudes beholding what Paul did, lifted up their voice in Lycaonian, saying, The gods having become like men are come down to us.
ACT 14:12 And they called Barnabas - Dia, and Paul - Hermes, since he was the one leading by word.
ACT 14:13 And the priest of Dia, being before their city, having brought bulls and garlands unto the vestibules, with the multitudes, wanted to sacrifice.
ACT 14:14 And having heard, the apostles Barnabas and Paul, having torn their garments, rushed into the multitude, crying,
ACT 14:15 and saying, Men, why do you do these things? Even we are men having the same passions as you, announcing good news - for you to turn from these vanities unto the living God, who made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all the things in them;
ACT 14:16 who in the generations passing by allowed all the nations to go by their ways.
ACT 14:17 Though indeed not without his own witness did he allow it, but was doing good from heaven to you - giving rains, and seasons bearing fruit, filling up provision and gladness of our hearts.
ACT 14:18 And saying these things, the multitudes hardly ceased to not sacrifice to them.
ACT 14:19 And Jews came from Antioch and Iconium. And having persuaded the multitudes, and having stoned Paul, they dragged him outside the city thinking him to have died.
ACT 14:20 But the disciples having encircled him, having risen up, he entered into the city. And the next day he went forth with Barnabas unto Derbe.
ACT 14:21 And having announced good news in that city, and having discipled a fit amount, they returned unto Lystra, and Iconium, and Antioch,
ACT 14:22 staying up the souls of the disciples, appealing to them to adhere to the belief, and saying that, By many afflictions we must enter into the kingdom of God.
ACT 14:23 And having hand picked for them elders in every assembly, having prayed with fastings, they placed them to the Lord, in whom they had believed.
ACT 14:24 And having gone through Pisidia, they came unto Pamphylia.
ACT 14:25 And having spoken the word in Perga, they went down unto Attalia.
ACT 14:26 And from there they sailed away unto Antioch, from where they were delivered up to the favor of God for the work which they fulfilled.
ACT 14:27 And having arrived, and having gathered together the assembly, they announced as much as God did with them, and that he opened to the nations a door of belief.
ACT 14:28 And they spent time there, not a little, with the disciples.
ACT 15:1 And certain ones having come down from Judea taught the brothers, saying that, If you should not be circumcised in the custom of Moses, you are not able to be delivered.
ACT 15:2 A faction then having taken place, and not a small inquiry with Paul and Barnabas with them, they ordered Paul and Barnabas to ascend, and certain others of them, to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem concerning this matter.
ACT 15:3 They then indeed having been sent forward by the assembly, went through Phoenicia and Samaria, telling in detail the turning of the nations. And they caused great joy to all the brothers.
ACT 15:4 And having come unto Jerusalem, they were gladly received by the assembly, and of the apostles and the elders, and they announced as much as God did with them.
ACT 15:5 And there rose up some of the ones from the sect of the believing Pharisees, saying that, It is necessary to circumcise them, also to exhort them to give heed to the law of Moses.
ACT 15:6 And there were gathered together the apostles and the elders to know concerning this matter.
ACT 15:7 And much debating having taken place, Peter having risen up, said to them, Men, brothers, you know that from days of old God among us chose by my mouth for the nations to hear the word of the good news, and to believe.
ACT 15:8 And the knower of hearts - God, he bore witness to them, giving to them the holy spirit as also to us;
ACT 15:9 and in nothing discriminating between us and even them, by the belief having cleansed their hearts.
ACT 15:10 Now then why test God, to place a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
ACT 15:11 But by the favor of the Lord Jesus Christ we believe to be delivered in which manner as those.
ACT 15:12 And all the multitude was quiet, and they heard Barnabas and Paul describing as much as God did by signs and miracles among the nations through them.
ACT 15:13 And after their quieting, James responded saying, Men, brothers, hear me!
ACT 15:14 Simeon described as how first God visited to take from out of nations a people for his name.
ACT 15:15 And with this the words of the prophets agreed; as it has been written,
ACT 15:16 After these things I will return, and will rebuild the tent of David, the one fallen; and the things having been razed of it I will rebuild, and I will re-erect it.
ACT 15:17 So that the remnants of men shall seek after the Lord, and all the nations upon which my name has been called upon by them, says the Lord - the one doing all these things.
ACT 15:18 To God all his works are known from the eon.
ACT 15:19 Therefore I judge to not cause trouble to the ones from the nations turning towards God;
ACT 15:20 but write to them to be at a distance from the pollution of idols, and harlotry, and the thing strangled, and blood.
ACT 15:21 For Moses, from generations of old has the ones in every city proclaiming him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath.
ACT 15:22 Then it seemed good to the apostles and to the elders, with the entire assembly, to send forth chosen men of them unto Antioch with Paul and Barnabas - Judas the one called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers,
ACT 15:23 having written by their hand thus; The apostles, and the elders, and the brothers, to the ones in Antioch, and Syria, and Cilicia. To the brothers of the nations, rejoice!
ACT 15:24 Since we heard that some from us having come forth disturbed you in words, subverting your souls, saying to be circumcised and to give heed to the law - to whom we did not give orders.
ACT 15:25 It seemed good to us, taking place with one accord, choosing men to send to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
ACT 15:26 men delivering up their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
ACT 15:27 We have sent then Judas and Silas, and they by word are reporting the same things.
ACT 15:28 For it seemed good to the holy spirit, and to us, to place upon you no more load except these things of necessity;
ACT 15:29 to be at a distance of things sacrificed to idols, and of blood, and of what is strangled, and of harlotry; of which keeping yourselves you do good. Stay firm!
ACT 15:30 The ones indeed then being dismissed, came unto Antioch. And having gathered together the multitude, they gave over the letter.
ACT 15:31 And having read, they rejoiced over the exhortation.
ACT 15:32 And Judas and Silas, also themselves being prophets, through much communication, exhorted the brothers, and stayed them.
ACT 15:33 And having spent time, they were dismissed with peace from the brothers to the apostles.
ACT 15:34 And it seemed good to Silas to remain himself.
ACT 15:35 And Paul and Barnabas spent time in Antioch, teaching and announcing good news - the word of the Lord with also many others.
ACT 15:36 And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, Returning, we should indeed visit our brothers in every city in which we announced the word of the Lord, to see how they suffice.
ACT 15:37 And Barnabas planned to take along John, the one being called Mark.
ACT 15:38 But Paul thought it worthy that the one separating from them from Pamphylia, and not coming together with them for the work, to not take this one along.
ACT 15:39 There took place then a fit of temper so that they separated from one another. And Barnabas having taken Mark with himself, sailed across unto Cyprus;
ACT 15:40 and Paul having chosen Silas, went forth, having been delivered up to the favor of God by the brothers.
ACT 15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, staying up the assemblies.
ACT 16:1 And he arrived at Derbe and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there, by name Timothy, son of a certain believing Jewish woman, but the father was a Greek,
ACT 16:2 who was borne witness to by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium.
ACT 16:3 Paul wanted this one to go forth with him. And having taken he circumcised him on account of the Jews being in those places, for they all knew his father, that he was a Greek.
ACT 16:4 And as they traveled the cities, they delivered up to them the decrees being adjudged to keep, by the apostles and the elders in Jerusalem.
ACT 16:5 Then indeed the assemblies were solidified in the belief, and abounded in number by day.
ACT 16:6 And having gone through the Phrygian, and the Galacian region, they were restrained by the holy spirit to speak the word in Asia.
ACT 16:7 Having come down to Mysia, they attempted to go towards Bithynia. And the spirit did not allow them.
ACT 16:8 And going by Mysia, they went down unto Troas.
ACT 16:9 And a vision by the night appeared to Paul; a certain man of Macedonia was standing, appealing to him, and saying, Having passed over into Macedonia, help us!
ACT 16:10 And as he beheld the vision, immediately we sought to go forth into Macedonia, being instructed that the Lord called on us to announce good news to them.
ACT 16:11 Having embarked then from Troas, we ran direct unto Samothrace, and the following day to Neapolis;
ACT 16:12 and from there to Philippi, which is a foremost city of the portion of Macedonia - a colony. And we were in this city spending time some days.
ACT 16:13 And on the day of the sabbaths we went forth outside the city by a river, of which we thought prayer to be; and having sat down we spoke to the women having gathered together.
ACT 16:14 And a certain woman, by name Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God, was listening; of whom the Lord opened wide her heart to take heed to the things being spoken by Paul.
ACT 16:15 And as she was being immersed, and her house, she appealed, saying, If you adjudge me to be trustworthy to the Lord, having entered into my house, abide! And she pressured us.
ACT 16:16 And it came to pass of our going unto prayer, a certain maidservant having a spirit of python met us, which furnished much work to her masters divining oracles.
ACT 16:17 She having followed closely after Paul and us, cried out saying, These men are servants of God the highest, who shall announce to us the way of deliverance.
ACT 16:18 And this she did for many days. And Paul being worked up, and having turned, said to the spirit, I summon to you in the name of Jesus Christ to come forth from her. And it came forth the same hour.
ACT 16:19 And her masters seeing that the hope of their work went forth, having taken hold of Paul and Silas, drew them into the market unto the rulers.
ACT 16:20 And leading them forward to the commandants, they said, These men disturb our city, being Jews,
ACT 16:21 and announce customs which are not allowed for us to welcome, nor to do, being Romans.
ACT 16:22 And rose up together the multitude against them. And the commandants having torn off their garments, bid to beat them with a rod.
ACT 16:23 And having placed upon them many strokes, they threw them into prison, exhorting the jailer to keep them safely.
ACT 16:24 Who having received such exhortation, cast them in the inner prison, and safeguarded their feet in the wood stocks.
ACT 16:25 And towards midnight, Paul and Silas were praying, singing praise to God; and the prisoners heeded them.
ACT 16:26 And suddenly a great earthquake took place, so as to shake the foundations of the jail. And immediately all the doors were opened, and all the bonds were unfastened.
ACT 16:27 And the jailer being awakened out of sleep, and beholding the doors of the prison being open, unsheathed his sword, being about to do away with himself, thinking the prisoners to have fled.
ACT 16:28 And Paul spoke out with a great voice, saying, You should not exact hurt on yourself; for we are all together here.
ACT 16:29 And asking for lights, he rushed in, and being trembling, fell before Paul and Silas.
ACT 16:30 And having led them outside, he said, Masters, what is necessary for me to do that I should be delivered?
ACT 16:31 And they said, Believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be delivered, you and your house.
ACT 16:32 And they spoke to him the word of the Lord, and to all the ones in his house.
ACT 16:33 And having taken them in that hour of the night, he bathed them from the strokes; and he was immersed, and all his family, immediately.
ACT 16:34 And having led them into his house, he placed a table, and exulted with his whole family, having believed in God.
ACT 16:35 And day having come the commandants of the lictors sent, saying, Release those men!
ACT 16:36 And the jailer reported these words to Paul, that, The commandants have sent that you be released. Now then having gone forth, go in peace!
ACT 16:37 But Paul said to them, Having flayed us in public, uncondemned men, being Romans, they cast us into prison; and now in private they cast us out? For no, but having come let them lead us out themselves!
ACT 16:38 And the lictors announced to the commandants these words. And they feared, having heard that they are Romans.
ACT 16:39 And having come, they appealed to them, and having led them out, asked them to go forth out of the city.
ACT 16:40 And having gone forth from out of the prison, they entered to Lydia. And having seen the brothers, they comforted them, and they went forth.
ACT 17:1 And having traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came unto Thessalonica, where there was the synagogue of the Jews.
ACT 17:2 And according to the thing accustomed to Paul, he entered to them, and for three sabbaths reasoned with them from the scriptures,
ACT 17:3 opening and pointing out, that it was a must for the Christ to suffer, and to be raised up from the dead; and that this one is the Christ - Jesus, whom I announce to you.
ACT 17:4 And some of them yielded and associated with Paul and Silas; both of the worshiping Greeks a great multitude, and of the foremost women not a few.
ACT 17:5 And having taken up with the Jews resisting persuasion of the advocates, certain wicked men, and having raised a mob, made a disruption in the city. And having stood by the house of Jason, they sought to lead them unto the people.
ACT 17:6 But not having found them, they dragged Jason and certain brothers unto the rulers of the city, yelling that, The ones overthrowing the inhabitable world are these, and they are at hand here;
ACT 17:7 whom Jason has welcomed. And these all act contrary of the decrees of Caesar, saying another to be king - Jesus.
ACT 17:8 And the multitude and the rulers of the city were disturbed hearing these things.
ACT 17:9 And having taken a fit security from Jason, and the rest, they released them.
ACT 17:10 And the brothers immediately by the night sent forth both Paul and Silas unto Berea. Who, being come, went into the synagogue of the Jews.
ACT 17:11 And these were more well-born - of the others. of the ones in Thessalonica, who received the word with all eagerness, by the day examining the scriptures, if these held such things.
ACT 17:12 Many indeed then from them believed; and of the decent Greek women, and men, there were not a few.
ACT 17:13 But when the Jews from Thessalonica knew that also in Berea the word of God was announced by Paul, they came also shaking up the multitudes.
ACT 17:14 And immediately then the brothers sent Paul to go as by the sea. But both Silas and Timothy remained behind there.
ACT 17:15 And the ones standing by Paul led him unto Athens. And receiving a command to Silas and Timothy, that as quickly as possible they should come to him, they exited.
ACT 17:16 But in Athens, Paul looking out for them, was provoked in his spirit, in his viewing the city being full of idols.
ACT 17:17 He reasoned indeed then in the synagogue with the Jews, and the ones worshiping, and in the market every day with the ones coming by.
ACT 17:18 And some of the Epicureans, and of the Stoics, philosophers, engaged with him. And some said, What ever does this seed picker want to say? And some said, He seems to be an announcer of strange demons - because he announced good news of Jesus and the resurrection to them.
ACT 17:19 And taking hold of him, they led him unto the Areopagus, saying, Are we able to know what this new teaching being spoken by you is?
ACT 17:20 For some things being strange you insert into our hearing. We want then to know what ever these things will to be.
ACT 17:21 ( And all Athenians, and the emigrating strangers, spend their opportune time in nothing else than to tell and to hear something newer.)
ACT 17:22 And Paul having stood in the middle of the Areopagus, said, Men, Athenians, I view you in all things as ones reverent of gods.
ACT 17:23 For going through, and contemplating your objects of worship, I found also a shrine in which had been inscribed, To an unknown God. Whom then not knowing you are pious towards, this one I announce to you.
ACT 17:24 The God making the world and all the things in it, this one being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in handmade temples;
ACT 17:25 nor by the hands of men attending is there any feeling any want, himself giving to all life and breath, and all things;
ACT 17:26 and made of one blood every nation of men to dwell upon all the face of the earth, (having confirmed beforehand times and the boundaries of their dwelling,)
ACT 17:27 to seek the Lord, if then perhaps they might grope after him, and might find him, though indeed he being not far from each one of us.
ACT 17:28 For in him we live, and move, and are; as also some of the poets among you have said, For of him we are also a family.
ACT 17:29 Being a family then of God, we ought not to think gold, or silver, or stone, (an imprint of a craft, and thinking of man,) to be like the divine?
ACT 17:30 Indeed then the times of ignorance God having overlooked; at present exhorts all men everywhere to repent.
ACT 17:31 For he set a day, in which he is about to judge the world in righteousness by a man in whom he confirmed; having furnished belief to all, having raised him from the dead.
ACT 17:32 And hearing a resurrection of the dead, some taunted; and some said, We will hear you again concerning this.
ACT 17:33 And thus Paul came forth from out of the midst of them.
ACT 17:34 But some men cleaving to him believed. Among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman, by name Damaris, and others with them.
ACT 18:1 And after these things Paul having separated from Athens, came unto Corinth.
ACT 18:2 And having found a certain Jew, by name Aquila, of Pontus by race, recently come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife; (because Claudius ordered all the Jews to separate from Rome;) he came forward to them.
ACT 18:3 And because of being the same trade, he stayed with them, and worked; for they were tentmakers in the craft.
ACT 18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue according to every sabbath, to persuade both Jews and Greeks.
ACT 18:5 And when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was constrained in the spirit, testifying the Christ to the Jews - Jesus.
ACT 18:6 And they being rebellious and blaspheming, having shaken off his garments, said to them, Your blood be upon your head; I am clean. From now on I shall go unto the nations.
ACT 18:7 And having crossed over from there, he came unto the house of a certain one, by name Justus, who worshiped God, of whose house was adjoining the synagogue.
ACT 18:8 But Crispus, the chief of the synagogue trusted in the Lord with his entire house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were immersed.
ACT 18:9 And the Lord said by a vision at night to Paul, Fear not, but speak, and do not keep silent!
ACT 18:10 For I am with you, and no one shall attack you to inflict evil on you; for there are many people with me in this city.
ACT 18:11 And he stayed a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God.
ACT 18:12 And Gallio being proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up against Paul with one accord, and led him unto the rostrum,
ACT 18:13 saying that, By this law he dissuades men to worship God.
ACT 18:14 And Paul being about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If indeed then it was some offence or evil villainy, O Jews, on this account I would have endured you;
ACT 18:15 but if the matter is concerning a word and names and a law of yours, you shall see to it yourselves; for I do not want to be a judge of these things.
ACT 18:16 And he drove them away from the rostrum.
ACT 18:17 And all the Greeks taking hold of Sosthenes, the chief of the synagogue, beat him in front of the rostrum. And to Gallio he cared not one thing of these.
ACT 18:18 But Paul, yet having remained a fit amount of days, having dismissed the brothers, sailed across unto Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea - for he had a vow.
ACT 18:19 And he arrived in Ephesus, and those he left behind there. But he himself having entered into the synagogue, reasoned with the Jews.
ACT 18:20 And being asked of them for more time to stay with them, he did not nod assent;
ACT 18:21 but sent them away, having said, It is necessary for me assuredly with the coming holiday to observe it in Jerusalem; but again I will return to you, God willing. And he embarked from Ephesus.
ACT 18:22 And having gone down unto Caesarea, having ascended, and having greeted the assembly, he went down to Antioch.
ACT 18:23 And having spent some time, he went forth, going through the Galatian and Phrygian region in order, staying up all the disciples.
ACT 18:24 And a certain Jew, Apollos by name, an Alexandrian by race, a learned man, arrived in Ephesus, being mighty in the scriptures.
ACT 18:25 This one was being instructed in the way of the Lord; and bubbling in the spirit, he spoke and he taught exactly the things concerning the Lord, having knowledge of only the immersion of John.
ACT 18:26 This one also began to speak openly in the synagogue. And Aquila and Priscilla having heard him, took him to themselves, and more exactly expounded to him the way of God.
ACT 18:27 And he wanting to go through into Achaia, the brothers encouraging wrote to the disciples to gladly receive him; who having arrived engaged much with the ones believing through favor.
ACT 18:28 For intensely with the Jews he thoroughly confuted in public, displaying through the scriptures Jesus to be the Christ.
ACT 19:1 And it came to pass, in the fact of Apollos being in Corinth, Paul having gone through the remote parts, came unto Ephesus. And having found certain disciples,
ACT 19:2 he said to them, Did you receive holy spirit having believed? And they said to him, Not even if there is holy spirit have we heard.
ACT 19:3 And he said to them, By what then were you immersed? And they said, By the immersion of John.
ACT 19:4 And Paul said, John indeed immersed with an immersion of repentance, saying to the people, that they should believe on the one coming after him, that is to say in Jesus the Christ.
ACT 19:5 And having heard, they were immersed in the name of the Lord Jesus.
ACT 19:6 And Paul having put hands upon them, the holy spirit came upon them, both speaking languages and prophesying.
ACT 19:7 And all the men were about twelve.
ACT 19:8 And having entered into the synagogue, he spoke openly for three months, reasoning and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God.
ACT 19:9 But when some were hardened, and resisted persuasion, speaking evil of the way before the multitude, having left from them, he separated the disciples, by day reasoning in the school of a certain Tyrannus.
ACT 19:10 And this took place for two years, so that all the ones dwelling Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
ACT 19:11 And works of power, not happening by chance, God did through the hands of Paul;
ACT 19:12 so that even unto the ones being invalid scarfs or aprons from his flesh were borne, and the diseases were rid from them, and the evil spirits went forth from them.
ACT 19:13 But certain ones of the traveling Jewish exorcists attempted to name the name of the Lord Jesus against the ones having evil spirits, saying, We bind you by the Jesus whom Paul proclaims!
ACT 19:14 And there were certain ones, seven sons of Sceva a Jew a chief priest, doing this.
ACT 19:15 And responding the evil spirit said, Jesus I know, and Paul I have knowledge of; but you, who are you?
ACT 19:16 And the man springing upon them, in whom was the evil spirit, and having dominated them, prevailed against them, so that naked and wounded they fled from out of that house.
ACT 19:17 And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, dwelling in Ephesus. And fear fell upon all of them, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
ACT 19:18 And many of the ones believing came, acknowledging and announcing their actions.
ACT 19:19 And a fit amount of the ones practicing useless works found it advantageous to incinerate the books before all. And they joined in tallying their value, and found it to be five myriads of silver.
ACT 19:20 Thus with might the word of the Lord grew and strengthened.
ACT 19:21 And when these things were fulfilled, Paul set in the spirit, having gone through Macedonia and Achaia, to go unto Jerusalem, having said that, After my being there, it is necessary for me also to see Rome.
ACT 19:22 And having sent unto Macedonia two of the ones serving to him, Timothy and Erastus, he waited for a time in Asia.
ACT 19:23 And came to pass according to that time not a little disturbance concerning the way.
ACT 19:24 For Demetrius, a certain one by name, a silversmith, making temples of silver of Artemis, furnished to the craftsmen not a little work;
ACT 19:25 whom gathering together, and the ones concerning such workers, said, Men, you know that from out of this work is our means.
ACT 19:26 And you view and hear, that not only Ephesus, but nearly all Asia, this Paul, having persuaded, changed over a fit multitude, saying that the things being made by hands are not gods.
ACT 19:27 And not only this, it exposes danger to us, lest the part come into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis is considered as nothing, and her magnificence also is about to be lowered, which all Asia and the habitable world worship.
ACT 19:28 And having heard, and having become full of rage, they cried out, saying, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians.
ACT 19:29 And the entire city was filled of confusion. And they advanced with one accord unto the theater, having seized by force Gaius and Aristarcus, Macedonian traveling companions of Paul.
ACT 19:30 And Paul wanting to enter unto the people, the disciples did not allow him.
ACT 19:31 And certain ones also of the Asiarchs, being friends with him, sending to him, appealed for him to not put himself in the theater.
ACT 19:32 Others therefore one thing and some another were crying out; for the assembly was in tumult; and most did not know for what reason they had come together.
ACT 19:33 And from the multitude they forced Alexander, of the Jews burgeoning him forth. But Alexander, having waved his hand, wanted to make a defense to the people.
ACT 19:34 And recognizing that he is a Jew, there became one voice from all, for about two hours crying out, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians.
ACT 19:35 And the scribe having restrained the multitude, says, Men, Ephesians, for what man is there who does not know the city of the Ephesians being a devotee of the great goddess Artemis, even of the one sent by Zeus?
ACT 19:36 Indisputable then these things being, it is necessary for you to be restrained, and in nothing to act precipitously.
ACT 19:37 For you brought these men, who are neither sacrilegious, nor blasphemous of your god.
ACT 19:38 If indeed then Demetrius, and the craftsmen with him have a matter against anyone, let advocates be led, and there are procounsuls - let them accuse one another!
ACT 19:39 But if anything concerning other matters you anxiously seek, it shall be explained in the lawful assembly.
ACT 19:40 For also we are exposed to danger to be accused of insurrection concerning today, with no one reason existing concerning which we shall be able to render a word for this tumult.
ACT 19:41 And these things having said, he dismissed the assembly.
ACT 20:1 And after the tumult ceased, Paul having called the disciples, and saluting, went forth to go into Macedonia.
ACT 20:2 And having gone through those parts, and comforting them by much communication, he came unto Greece.
ACT 20:3 And having spent three months, with a plot having been made against him by the Jews, being about to embark unto Syria, he became of the opinion to return through Macedonia.
ACT 20:4 And there accompanied him as far as Asia Sopator a Berean; and of Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
ACT 20:5 These having gone forward waited for us in Troas.
ACT 20:6 And we sailed across, after the days of the unleavened breads, from Philippi, and came to them in Troas unto five days; where we spent seven days.
ACT 20:7 And on day one of the sabbaths, the disciples having been gathered to break bread, Paul reasoned with them, being about to exit the next day; and he extended the word until midnight.
ACT 20:8 And there were a fit amount of lamps in the upper room, where we were gathered together.
ACT 20:9 And there was sitting down a certain young one, by name Eutychus, by the window, being sunk in a deep sleep. And with Paul reasoning for a long time, having sunken from the sleep, he fell from the third level to below, and was lifted up dead.
ACT 20:10 And having descended, Paul fell upon him, and having wrapped around him, said, Do not make a disruption, for his life is in him.
ACT 20:11 And having ascended, and having broken bread, and having tasted, and for a fit time consorting until daylight, thus he went forth.
ACT 20:12 And they brought the child alive, and were comforted not moderately.
ACT 20:13 And we having gone forth unto the boat, embarked unto Assos, from there being about to take up Paul. For so it was having been set in order, himself being about to go on foot.
ACT 20:14 And when he united with us at Assos, having taken him in, we came unto Mitylene.
ACT 20:15 And from there sailing away, on the following day we arrived towards Chios; and in the other day we set aside unto Samos, and abided in Trogyllium; and the next day we came to Miletus.
ACT 20:16 For Paul decided to sail by Ephesus, so that it should not happen for him to spend time in Asia. For he hastened, if it was possible for him, to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
ACT 20:17 And from Miletus, having sent to Ephesus, he called for the elders of the assembly.
ACT 20:18 And when they were come to him, he said to them, You know, from the first day of which I set foot in Asia, how I was with you all the time,
ACT 20:19 serving to the Lord with all humility, and many tears, and tests, of the ones coming to pass to me in the plots of the Jews;
ACT 20:20 how I kept back nothing of the things advantageous unto you, so as to not announce it to you, and to teach you in public, and by houses,
ACT 20:21 testifying both to Jews, and Greeks, the thing for God - repentance and belief in our Lord Jesus Christ.
ACT 20:22 And now, behold, I being bound in the spirit go unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things in it meeting up with me.
ACT 20:23 Except that the holy spirit in every city testifies, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
ACT 20:24 But I make account of nothing, nor do I hold my life esteemed to myself, as to finish my race with joy, and the service which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify the good news of the favor of God.
ACT 20:25 And now, behold, I know that no longer shall you all see my face, among whom I went about proclaiming the kingdom of God.
ACT 20:26 Therefore I testify to you in today's day, that I am clean from the blood of all.
ACT 20:27 For I did not keep back to announce to you all the counsel of God.
ACT 20:28 Take heed then to yourselves, and to all the flock, in which the holy spirit placed you as overseers, to tend the assembly of God, which he procured through his own blood!
ACT 20:29 For I know this, that grievous wolves shall enter after my departure unto you, not sparing the flock.
ACT 20:30 And from out of your own selves shall rise up men speaking things being perverted, to draw away the disciples after them.
ACT 20:31 Therefore be vigilant! Remembering that for a space of three years, night and day, I ceased not with tears admonishing each one.
ACT 20:32 And at present I point you out, brothers, to God, and to the word of his favor, to the thing being able to build up, and to give to you an inheritance among all the ones having been sanctified.
ACT 20:33 I desired of no one silver or gold or clothes.
ACT 20:34 You know yourselves, that my needs, and the ones being with me, these hands assisted.
ACT 20:35 All things I plainly showed to you, that so tiring it is necessary to assist the ones being weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
ACT 20:36 And these things having said, having set his knees with them all, he prayed.
ACT 20:37 And there became a fit amount of weeping by all. And falling upon the neck of Paul they kissed him,
ACT 20:38 being grieved especially over the word which he had said, that no longer are they about to view his face. And they sent him unto the boat.
ACT 21:1 And when it came to pass, we embarked, having drawn away from them, having run direct, we came unto Cos, and the next day unto Rhodes, and from there unto Patara.
ACT 21:2 And having found a boat passing through unto Phoenicia, having set foot on it, we embarked.
ACT 21:3 And Cyprus having appeared, and having left it on the left, we sailed unto Syria, and led down unto Tyre; for at that place the boat was unloading the cargo.
ACT 21:4 And having discovered the disciples, (we remained there seven days,) who said to Paul through the spirit, to not ascend unto Jerusalem.
ACT 21:5 But when it happened we accomplished the days, having gone forth we went, with all the women and children escorting us, as far as outside the city. And setting the knees upon the shore, we prayed.
ACT 21:6 And having saluted one another, we mounted into the boat; and those returned to their own.
ACT 21:7 And we having concluded the voyage from Tyre, arrived at Ptolemais. And having saluted the brothers, we abode one day with them.
ACT 21:8 And the next day, the ones around Paul having gone forth, they came unto Caesarea. And having entered into the house of Philip the Evangelist, being from out of the seven, we stayed with him.
ACT 21:9 And to this man were four virgin daughters, who prophesied.
ACT 21:10 And of our remaining many days, there came down a certain one from Judea, a prophet, by name Agabus.
ACT 21:11 And having come to us, and having taken the belt of Paul, and having bound his hands and feet, he said, Thus says the holy spirit, The man of which is this belt, so shall the Jews in Jerusalem bind, and shall deliver him up into the hands of the nations.
ACT 21:12 And when we heard these things, both we and the ones of that place appealed for him to not ascend unto Jerusalem.
ACT 21:13 And Paul responded, Why do you cause weeping and breaking of my heart? for I not only to be bound, but also readily hold to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
ACT 21:14 And he not being persuaded, we were still, having said, The will of the Lord, let it be!
ACT 21:15 And after these days, having packed up, we ascended unto Jerusalem.
ACT 21:16 And came together also some of the disciples from Caesarea with us, bringing the one with whom we should lodge, a certain Mnason a Cypriot, a disciple of old.
ACT 21:17 And of our being in Jerusalem, the brothers gladly received us.
ACT 21:18 And the following day Paul enters with us to James; and all the elders arrived.
ACT 21:19 And having greeted them, he described according to each one what God did among the nations through his service.
ACT 21:20 And they having heard, glorified the Lord, and said to him, You view, O brother, how many myriads of believing Jews there are, and all being zealous of the law.
ACT 21:21 And they instruct concerning you that you teach all the Jews among the nations defection from Moses, saying not to circumcise their children, nor to walk in the customs.
ACT 21:22 What then is it? Assuredly it is necessary for a multitude to come together, for they shall hear that you have come.
ACT 21:23 This then do what we tell you! There are with us four men having a vow upon themselves;
ACT 21:24 taking these, be purified with them, and spend for them, that they may shave the head! And all should know that of which they have been instructed concerning you is nothing; but you conform to keeping the law even yourself.
ACT 21:25 But concerning the ones believing of the nations, we wrote, judging them to give heed to no such thing, except to keep themselves from both that sacrificed to idols, and the blood, and what is strangled, and harlotry.
ACT 21:26 Then Paul, having taken the men the next day, with them having been purified, he entered into the temple, declaring the fulfillment of the days of the purification, while the offering was offered for each one of them.
ACT 21:27 And when the seven days were about to be completed, the Jews from Asia, having seen him in the temple, caused a tumult with all the multitude, and put hands upon him,
ACT 21:28 crying out, Men, Israelites, help! This is the man teaching all everywhere against the people and the law and this place. Still indeed even Greeks he brings into the temple, and makes this holy place unclean.
ACT 21:29 (For they were seeing Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, whom they thought that Paul brought into the temple.)
ACT 21:30 And the entire city was shaken indeed, and there became a stampede of people. And having taken hold of Paul, they drew him outside of the temple, and immediately locked the doors.
ACT 21:31 And seeking to kill him, a report ascended to the commander of the cohort, that all Jerusalem was in tumult.
ACT 21:32 Who immediately, having taken soldiers and centurions, ran down upon them. And the ones beholding the commander and the soldiers, ceased beating Paul.
ACT 21:33 And having approached, the commander took hold of him, and bid him to be tied with two chains, and to inquire about who he may be, and what he is doing.
ACT 21:34 And others to another were yelling in the multitude. And not being able to know safely because of the tumult, he bid them to lead him unto the camp.
ACT 21:35 And when he was at the stairs, it happened that he was borne by the soldiers because of the force of the multitude.
ACT 21:36 For the multitude of the people followed, crying out, Take him away!
ACT 21:37 And being about to be brought into the camp, Paul says to the commander, Is it allowed for me to speak to you? And he said, You know Greek?
ACT 21:38 Are you not then the Egyptian, who before these days overthrew, and led out into the wilderness the four thousand men of the Sicari?
ACT 21:39 And Paul said, I a man indeed, am a Jew of Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of not an unmarked city; and I beseech you, commit it to my care to speak to the people.
ACT 21:40 And he having permitted, Paul standing upon the stairs, waved his hand to the people. And with a great quietness having taken place, he called out in the Hebrew dialect, saying,
ACT 22:1 Men, brothers, and fathers, hear my defense to you now!
ACT 22:2 And hearing that in the Hebrew dialect he called out to them, the more they made rest.
ACT 22:3 And he says, I indeed am a man, a Jew, being born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but being reared in this city by the feet of Gamaliel, being instructed according to the exactness of the paternal law, being zealous of God, as all you are today;
ACT 22:4 one who persecuted this way unto death, binding and delivering up unto prisons both men and women.
ACT 22:5 As also the chief priest bears witness to me, and all the council of elders; by whom also letters having received, I went to the brothers in Damascus, for leading also the ones at that place being bound unto Jerusalem, that they should be punished.
ACT 22:6 And it happened to me going and approaching to Damascus around midday, suddenly from out of the heaven flashed about a light, a fit amount around me.
ACT 22:7 And I fell onto the ground, and I heard a voice saying to me, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?
ACT 22:8 And I answered, Who are you, O Lord? And he said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you persecute.
ACT 22:9 And the ones being with me indeed saw a light, and became thrown into fear; but they heard not the voice of the one speaking to me.
ACT 22:10 And I said, What shall I do, O Lord? And the Lord said to me, Having risen up, go unto Damascus, and there it shall be told to you concerning all of which is arranged to you to do!
ACT 22:11 And as I looked not upon anything because of the glory of that light, being led by the hand by the ones being with me, I came unto Damascus.
ACT 22:12 And a certain Ananias, a pious man according to the law, borne witness to by all the Jews dwelling in Damascus,
ACT 22:13 having come to me, and having stood by, said to me, O brother Saul, look up! And I the same hour looked up on him.
ACT 22:14 And he said, The God of our fathers handpicked you to know his will, and to behold the just one, and to hear the voice from out of his mouth.
ACT 22:15 For you will be a witness to him to all men of what you have seen and heard.
ACT 22:16 And now, why be about to delay.? Having arisen, be immersed, and wash off your sins, calling upon the name of the Lord.
ACT 22:17 And it happened to me in returning unto Jerusalem, and my praying in the temple, there took place in me a change of state;
ACT 22:18 and beholding him saying to me, Hasten, and go forth quickly from Jerusalem! for they will not welcome your testimony concerning me.
ACT 22:19 And I said, O Lord, they know that I was casting into prison and flaying against the synagogues believing upon you.
ACT 22:20 And when the blood of Stephen your witness was poured out, also I myself was standing by, and assenting with his removal, guarding the garments of the ones doing away with him.
ACT 22:21 And he said to me, Go! For I shall send you unto nations far off!
ACT 22:22 And they heard him until this word, and they lifted up their voice, saying, Take such a one from the earth! for it is not fit for him to live.
ACT 22:23 And of their crying out, and tossing their garments, and throwing dust into the air,
ACT 22:24 the commander bid him to be led unto the camp, having said, Investigate him with whips! that we should know for what reason thus they sounded out against him.
ACT 22:25 And as they stretched him forward with the straps, Paul said to the centurion standing, Is it allowed to you to crack the whip on a Roman man and uncondemned?
ACT 22:26 And hearing, the centurion came forward to report to the commander, saying, Look to what you are about to do! for this man is a Roman.
ACT 22:27 And having come forward, the commander said to him, Tell me if you are a Roman? And he said, Yes.
ACT 22:28 And the commander responded, I by a great sum acquired this citizenship. And Paul said, But I even was born to it.
ACT 22:29 Then immediately the ones being about to investigate him abstained from him. And the commander also feared, realizing that he is a Roman, and that he was tied up by him.
ACT 22:30 And the next day, wanting to know safely why he is charged by the Jews, he loosed him from the bonds, and bid the chief priests to come and all their sanhedrin; and leading down Paul, he stood him among them.
ACT 23:1 And Paul gazing upon the sanhedrin, said, Men, brothers, I in all good conscience have conducted myself in public to God as far as this day.
ACT 23:2 But the chief priest Ananias gave orders to the ones standing beside him to strike his mouth.
ACT 23:3 Then Paul said to him, God is about to beat you, O wall being whitewashed. And you, do you sit down judging me according to the law, and acting unlawfully you bid me to be struck?
ACT 23:4 And the ones standing beside said, The chief priest of God you revile?
ACT 23:5 And Paul said, I knew not brothers that he is chief priest; for it has been written, You shall not speak ill of a ruler of your people.
ACT 23:6 And Paul having known that the one part is of Sadducees, and the other of Pharisees, cried out in the sanhedrin, Men, brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of a Pharisee; concerning hope and a resurrection of the dead I am judged.
ACT 23:7 And this he having said, there became a faction between the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And the multitude was split.
ACT 23:8 For the Sadducees indeed say to not be a resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit; but the Pharisees acknowledge both.
ACT 23:9 And there became a great cry. And having risen up, the scribes of the part of the Pharisees disputed violently, saying, Nothing bad do we find in this man. But if also a spirit spoke to him, or an angel, we should not fight against God.
ACT 23:10 And there being a great faction, the commander being cautious, lest Paul be pulled apart by them, bid the military to go down, and to seize him from out of the midst of them, and to lead him unto the camp.
ACT 23:11 And the following night, standing by him, the Lord said, Take courage, Paul! for as you testified the things concerning me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome.
ACT 23:12 And becoming day, some of the Jews having made a confederacy, devoted themselves, saying to neither eat nor drink until they should kill Paul.
ACT 23:13 And the ones making this conspiracy were more than forty;
ACT 23:14 who having come forward to the chief priests and to the elders, said, We devoted ourselves to consumption, to not taste one thing until of which we should kill Paul.
ACT 23:15 Now then you reveal yourselves to the commander with the sanhedrin, so that tomorrow he should lead him to you, as being about to determine more exactly the things concerning him. And we, before his approaching, are prepared to do away with him.
ACT 23:16 And the son of the sister of Paul having heard the ambush, having come and entered into the camp, reported it to Paul.
ACT 23:17 And Paul having called one of the centurions, said, Take this young man to the commander, for he has something to report to him!
ACT 23:18 Then indeed having taken him, he brought him to the commander, and says, The prisoner Paul having called me, asked me to lead this young man to you, having something to say to you.
ACT 23:19 And the commander having taken hold of his hand, and having withdrawn in private, inquired, What is it which you have to report to me?
ACT 23:20 And he said that, The Jews agreed to ask you that tomorrow you should lead Paul unto the sanhedrin, as being about something to more exactly ascertain concerning him.
ACT 23:21 You then should not be persuaded by them; for they lie in wait for him, more than forty men of them, who devoted themselves unto consumption, to neither eat nor drink until of which they should do away with him. And now they are ready, waiting a promise from you.
ACT 23:22 Then the commander dismissed the young man, exhorting, saying, Divulge to no one that these things were revealed to me.
ACT 23:23 And having called on two certain centurions, he said, Prepare two hundred soldiers, that they should go unto Caesarea, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen, from the third hour of the night;
ACT 23:24 and present beasts, that Paul setting upon one, they should deliver him to Felix the governor;
ACT 23:25 having a letter written containing this impression.
ACT 23:26 Claudius Lysias to the most excellent governor Felix, Hail!
ACT 23:27 This man having been seized by the Jews, and being about to be done away with by them; attending with the military, I rescued him, having learned that he is a Roman.
ACT 23:28 And wanting to know the reason for which they accused him, I led him down unto their sanhedrin.
ACT 23:29 Whom I found to be accused concerning matters of their law, but having not one indictment worthy of death or bonds.
ACT 23:30 And having been indicated to me of a plot against the man, being about to be by the Jews, immediately I sent forth to you, exhorting also the accusers to say the things against him unto you. Be in health!
ACT 23:31 The soldiers then, according to the thing being set in order for them, having taken Paul, led him through the night unto Antipatris.
ACT 23:32 And the next day they allowed the horsemen to go with him, and they returned unto the camp.
ACT 23:33 Who, having entered into Caesarea, and having delivered the letter to the governor, presented also Paul to him.
ACT 23:34 And the governor having read it, and having asked of what jurisdiction he is, and having ascertained that he is from Cilicia;
ACT 23:35 said I will hold a hearing for you,, whenever also your accusers should come. And he bid him to be kept in the praetorium of Herod.
ACT 24:1 And after five days there came down the chief priest Ananias with the elders, and a rhetorician, a certain Tertullus, who revealed themselves to the governor against Paul.
ACT 24:2 And having been called, Tertullus himself began to charge, saying, Great peace is happening through you, and great feats are happening to this nation because of your forethought;
ACT 24:3 both totally and everywhere we receive it gladly, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
ACT 24:4 But so that I should not hinder upon you much more, I appeal for you to hear us so suddenly in your clemency.
ACT 24:5 For having found this man mischievous, and moving insurrection among all the Jews in the habitable world, and front rank of the sect of the Nazarenes;
ACT 24:6 who also attempted to profane the temple, whom also we seized, and according to our law we wanted to judge.
ACT 24:7 But Lysias the commander having come by with a great force took him from out of our hands,
ACT 24:8 bidding his accusers to come; from whom you will be able, he having questioned concerning all these things, to realize what we accuse him.
ACT 24:9 And also the Jews joined in making an attack, maintaining these things thus to suffice.
ACT 24:10 And Paul responded, of the governor nodding to him to speak, saying, For many years you being judge to this nation, knowing this, more cheerfully the things concerning myself I make a defense.
ACT 24:11 You being able to know that there were not more than twelve days to me from which I ascended to do obeisance into Jerusalem.
ACT 24:12 And neither in the temple did they find me with anyone reasoning, or causing a conspiracy of a multitude, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city;
ACT 24:13 nor are they able to render proof concerning which now they charge me.
ACT 24:14 But I acknowledge this to you, that according to the way, which they call a sect, so I serve to the paternal God, believing in all things according to the law and to the things having been written in the prophets;
ACT 24:15 having a hope in God, which also they themselves wait for - a resurrection about to be of the dead, both of just ones and unjust ones.
ACT 24:16 And in this I discipline myself, not causing anyone to stumble, having a conscience towards God and men continually.
ACT 24:17 And after more years I came offering charity to my nation, and offerings.
ACT 24:18 In which they found me purified in the temple, not with a multitude, nor with a tumult. But certain Jews from Asia,
ACT 24:19 whom must be at hand before you, and to charge, if anything they may have against me;
ACT 24:20 and let these themselves speak! if they found anything in me for an offence, with my standing before the sanhedrin;
ACT 24:21 other than concerning this one voice which I cried out standing among them, that, Concerning a resurrection of the dead I am judged today by you.
ACT 24:22 And hearing these things, Felix postponed them, more exactly knowing the things concerning the way, having said, Whenever Lysias the commander should come down, I will determine the things as to you.
ACT 24:23 And having given orders to the centurion to keep Paul, and to let him have relaxation, and for no one to restrain the ones of his own to assist or to come forward to him.
ACT 24:24 And after some days, Felix having come with Drusilla his wife, being Jewish, he fetched Paul, and he heard him concerning the belief in Christ.
ACT 24:25 And of his reasoning concerning righteousness, and self-control, and the judgment about to be, Felix becoming thrown into fear responded, For now it suffices, go! But a time for sharing I will call you back.
ACT 24:26 But at the same time also hoping that things shall be given to him by Paul, so that he should loose him; therefore also more frequently fetching him, he consorted with him.
ACT 24:27 And a space of two years having been fulfilled, Felix received as a successor, Porcius Festus. And wanting favors to be laid away with the Jews, Felix left Paul bound.
ACT 25:1 Then Festus, having set foot in the jurisdiction after three days, ascended unto Jerusalem from Caesarea.
ACT 25:2 And the chief priest revealed to him, and the foremost men of the Jews, the things against Paul, that they appealed to him,
ACT 25:3 asking a favor against him, that he should fetch him unto Jerusalem, while making an ambush to do away with him along the way.
ACT 25:4 Then Festus responded for Paul to be kept in Caesarea, but he himself was about to quickly go forth.
ACT 25:5 The ones then mighty among you, says he, having gone down, if anything is out of place in this man, let them accuse him!
ACT 25:6 And having spent time among them more than ten days, having gone down unto Caesarea, the next day having sat upon the rostrum, he bid Paul to be led in.
ACT 25:7 And he being come, there stood around the Jews having come down from Jerusalem, with many and grievous accusations bringing against Paul, which they were not able to exhibit;
ACT 25:8 while of his pleading, saying that, Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar in anything I sinned.
ACT 25:9 And Festus, wanting to lay down favor with the Jews, responding to Paul, said, Are you willing to ascend unto Jerusalem to be judged by me there concerning these things?
ACT 25:10 And Paul said, Unto the rostrum of Caesar I am standing, of which it is necessary for me to be judged. To Jews I did no wrong, as also you well realize.
ACT 25:11 For if indeed I do wrong, and have acted in anything worthy of death, I do not ask pardon to die; but if there is nothing of which they charge me, no one can grant me to them. To Caesar I call upon.
ACT 25:12 Then Festus conversing together with the council responded, To Caesar you have called upon, unto Caesar you shall go.
ACT 25:13 And some days having elapsed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, saluting Festus.
ACT 25:14 And when they spent many days there, Festus the king presented the things relating to Paul, saying, There is a certain man being left by Felix - a prisoner.
ACT 25:15 Concerning whom, on my being in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews revealed, asking for punishment against him.
ACT 25:16 To whom I answered that, It is not a custom with Romans to grant any man for destruction, before the one being accused may have the accusers face to face, and may receive a place of defense concerning the indictment.
ACT 25:17 Then they having come here, not making delay, in the next day having seated at the rostrum, I bid the man to be led in.
ACT 25:18 Concerning whom, the accusers standing up, brought no accusation which I suspected.
ACT 25:19 But certain matters concerning their own reverence of God they had against him, and concerning a certain Jesus having died, whom Paul maintained to be alive.
ACT 25:20 And I being perplexed concerning this inquiry, said, Shall he be willing to go unto Jerusalem, and there to be judged concerning these things?
ACT 25:21 But Paul, having called upon himself to be kept for the inquiry of Augustus, I bid to keep him until of which I should send him forth to Caesar.
ACT 25:22 And Agrippa said to Festus, I wanted also myself to hear the man. And the morrow, he says, you shall hear him.
ACT 25:23 Then in the next day Agrippa and Bernice having come with much visible display, and having entered into the auditorium, with both the commanders, and men of prominence being of the city, and Festus having bid, Paul was led in.
ACT 25:24 And Festus says, O king Agrippa, and all the men being present with us, you view this one concerning whom all the multitude of the Jews interceded with me in both Jerusalem and here, yelling aloud he must not live any longer.
ACT 25:25 And I having perceived he to have done nothing worthy of death, and this one also himself having called upon Augustus, I judged to send him.
ACT 25:26 Concerning of which I have not anything safe to write to my lord. Therefore I led him unto you, and especially unto you, O king Agrippa, so that the examination having taken place, I should have something to write.
ACT 25:27 For it seems illogical to me to send forth a prisoner, and not signifying the accusations against him.
ACT 26:1 And Agrippa said to Paul, It is permitted for you to speak for yourself. Then Paul made a defense, having stretched out the hand.
ACT 26:2 Concerning all of which I am accused by the Jews, O king Agrippa, I esteem myself blessed being about to make a defense unto you today.
ACT 26:3 Especially you being a diviner of all the things among the Jews of both customs and matters. Therefore I beseech you leniently to hear me.
ACT 26:4 Indeed then the mode of my life from youth, the thing from the beginning happening among my nation in Jerusalem, all the Jews understand;
ACT 26:5 foreknowing me from the beginning, (if they should want to witness,) that according to the exactest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
ACT 26:6 And now for the hope of the promise being by God to the fathers I stand being judged.
ACT 26:7 In which our twelve tribes, serving with intensity night and day, hope to arrive. Concerning which hope I am accused, O king Agrippa, by the Jews.
ACT 26:8 Why is it judged unbelievable by you, if God raises the dead?
ACT 26:9 I indeed then thought to myself that it was necessary in many things to act opposite towards the name of Jesus the Nazarene.
ACT 26:10 Which also I did in Jerusalem. And many of the holy ones I imprisoned in prisons, receiving authority from the chief priests; and for doing away with them I brought down a vote.
ACT 26:11 And in all the synagogues often punishing them, I compelled them to blaspheme; and extremely raging against them, I persecuted them even as unto the outer cities.
ACT 26:12 In which also going unto Damascus with authority and delegated power by the chief priests,
ACT 26:13 in the middle of the day in the way, I beheld, O king, from heaven above, light the brightness of the sun shining about me, and the ones going with me.
ACT 26:14 And all of us having fallen down onto the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me, and saying in the Hebrew dialect, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? it is hard for you to kick against spurs.
ACT 26:15 And I said, Who are you, O Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom you persecute.
ACT 26:16 But rise up, and stand upon your feet! for in this I appeared to you, to handpick you as an assistant and witness both of what you beheld, and of what I shall make known to you;
ACT 26:17 taking you out from the people, and of the nations, unto whom now I shall send you,
ACT 26:18 to open their eyes, to turn them from darkness unto light, and the authority of Satan unto God, for them to receive a release of sins, and a lot among the ones having been sanctified by the belief in me.
ACT 26:19 From where, O king Agrippa, not to be resisting persuasion to the heavenly apparition;
ACT 26:20 but to the ones in Damascus first, and Jerusalem, and in all the region of Judea, and to the nations, I reported to repent and to turn unto God, doing works worthy of repentance.
ACT 26:21 Because of these things the Jews having seized me in the temple, attempted to lay hands upon me.
ACT 26:22 Having attained aid then from God, unto this day, I have stood testifying both to small and great, saying nothing outside of what both the prophets and Moses said was about to happen -
ACT 26:23 whether the Christ is susceptible of suffering; whether he first through resurrection of the dead is about to announce light to the people, and to the nations.
ACT 26:24 And having made his defense with these things, Festus with a great voice said, You are maniacal, Paul; many letters dizzies you into a frenzy.
ACT 26:25 But I am not maniacal, he says, most excellent Festus; but truth and discreetness of words I declare.
ACT 26:26 For concerning these things the king knows, to whom also openly speaking I speak. For I am not persuaded in any way for him to be unaware in any of these things. For not in a corner is this being done.
ACT 26:27 You believe, O king Agrippa, the prophets? I know that you believe.
ACT 26:28 And Agrippa said to Paul, By little you persuade me to become a Christian.
ACT 26:29 And Paul said, I would make a vow even to God, both in a little and in much, not only you, but also all the ones hearing me today to become such as to like what even I am, except these bonds.
ACT 26:30 And these things him having said, the king rose up, and the governor, and also Bernice, and the ones sitting together with them.
ACT 26:31 And having withdrawn they spoke with one another, saying that, Nothing worthy of death or bonds this man does.
ACT 26:32 And Agrippa said to Festus, This man was able to be loosed if he had not called upon Caesar.
ACT 27:1 And when it was decided for us to sail away unto Italy, they delivered up both Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion, by name Julius, of the cohort of Augustus.
ACT 27:2 And having set foot in a boat of Adramyttium, being about to sail the places along Asia, we embarked; with Aristarchus a Macedonian of Thessalonica being with us.
ACT 27:3 And in the other day we led down unto Sidon. And Julius kindly treating Paul, permitted him going to his friends to attain care.
ACT 27:4 And from there embarking, we sailed under Cyprus, because of the winds being adverse.
ACT 27:5 And the open sea along Cilicia and Pamphylia having sailed, we went down unto Myra of Lycia.
ACT 27:6 And there, the centurion having found a boat of Alexandria sailing to Italy, boarded us onto it.
ACT 27:7 And in a fit amount of days sailing slowly, and hardly coming near Cnidus, the wind not allowing us further, we sailed under Crete, near Salmone.
ACT 27:8 And hardly sailing along it, we came to a certain place being called, Good Harbors; which was near a city of Lasea.
ACT 27:9 And a fit amount of time having elapsed, and being already a dangerous voyage, because also the fasting already went by, Paul earnestly advised,
ACT 27:10 saying to them, Men, I contemplate that with damage and much loss, not only of the load of cargo and of the boat, but also the voyage is about to be of our lives.
ACT 27:11 But the centurion was persuaded by the navigator and the shipmaster, rather than the things being said by Paul.
ACT 27:12 And the existing harbor being unsuitable for wintering, the more they made counsel to embark from there, if by any means they might be able, arriving at Phoenix, to pass the winter, which is a harbor of Crete, looking towards the southwest and towards the northwest.
ACT 27:13 And blowing gently south, thinking the purpose to have been reached, having lifted off they sailed close by Crete.
ACT 27:14 But not long after a stormy wind shot by it, being called Euroclydon.
ACT 27:15 And the boat being seized with force, and not able to tack into the wind, giving up we bore off.
ACT 27:16 And running under some small island being called Clauda, we were hardly able to take control of the skiff;
ACT 27:17 which having taken up, they employed helps, undergirding the boat; and fearing lest they should fall off into the Syrtis Gulf, letting down the rigging, thus they were borne along.
ACT 27:18 And vehemently with our being tossed by the storm, on the next day an expulsion of cargo was made;
ACT 27:19 and the third day with our own hands we tossed out the rigging of the boat.
ACT 27:20 And neither sun nor stars were appearing for many more days, and not a small distress was pressed upon us, and all remaining hope was removed for us to be preserved.
ACT 27:21 And a long lack of food existing, then Paul standing in their midst said, Indeed it behooved you, O men, having yielded obedience to me, to not have embarked from Crete, so as to gain this damage and the loss.
ACT 27:22 And at present I earnestly advise you be cheerful! for not one life will be cast off of you, except the boat.
ACT 27:23 For there stood beside me in this night an angel of God, of whom I am, and in whom I serve,
ACT 27:24 saying, Fear not, Paul, Caesar you must stand before, and behold, God has granted to you all the ones sailing with you.
ACT 27:25 Therefore be cheerful, men! for I believe in God, that so it will be in which manner it has been spoken to me.
ACT 27:26 But onto a certain island we must fall.
ACT 27:27 And when the fourteenth night came to pass, we being carried about in the Adriatic, towards the middle of the night the seamen suspected some region neared them.
ACT 27:28 And having sounded, they found it twenty fathoms; and a short time having elapsed, and again having sounded, they found it fifteen fathoms.
ACT 27:29 And fearing perhaps they should fall into rough places, they tossed four anchors from out of the stern, vowing day to come.
ACT 27:30 And the seamen seeking to flee from the boat, and having let down the skiff into the sea, with an excuse as to be about to stretch out the anchors from the prow,
ACT 27:31 Paul said to the centurion, and to the soldiers, If these do not stay in the boat, you will not be able to be preserved.
ACT 27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the lines of the skiff, and allowed it to fall off.
ACT 27:33 And until day was about to come, Paul appealed for all to share in nourishment, saying, Today is the fourteenth day you continue expecting without eating, having taken nothing to yourselves.
ACT 27:34 Therefore I appeal to you to take nourishment; for this exists for your deliverance; for not one hair of yours shall fall from your head.
ACT 27:35 And having said these things, and having taken bread, he gave thanks to God before all. And having broken he began to eat.
ACT 27:36 And all having become cheerful, also they took nourishment.
ACT 27:37 And we were in the boat, all two hundred seventy six souls.
ACT 27:38 And being satisfied with nourishment, they lightened the boat, casting out the grain into the sea.
ACT 27:39 And when it became day, they did not recognize the land. But they contemplated a certain bay having a shore, on which they consulted if they are able to thrust the boat.
ACT 27:40 And having removed the anchors, they gave up unto the sea; together unfastening the tillers of the rudder, and having lifted up the mainsail to the blow, they held for the shore.
ACT 27:41 And having fallen into a place between two seas, they ran the ship aground. And the prow having stuck, remained unshaken, but the stern was loose by the force of the waves.
ACT 27:42 And the soldiers plan was that they should kill the prisoners, lest any swimming, should have escaped.
ACT 27:43 But the centurion wanting to save Paul, restrained them of their will. And he bid the ones able to swim, having thrown themselves off first, to exit unto the land;
ACT 27:44 and the rest, some indeed upon planks, and others upon some of the things from the boat. And so it came to pass all came through safe unto the land.
ACT 28:1 And having come through safe, then they knew that the island is called Malta.
ACT 28:2 And the barbarians furnished not the happen by chance humane treatment to us; for having lit a bonfire, they took all of us unto themselves, because of the rain attending, and because of the chilliness.
ACT 28:3 And Paul bundled up a multitude of sticks, and having placed them on the bonfire, a viper having gone completely through from the heat, clinched onto his hand.
ACT 28:4 And when the barbarians beheld the beast hanging from his hand, they said to one another, Assuredly this man is a murderer, whom having been delivered from the sea, Dice allowed not to live.
ACT 28:5 He indeed then, having brushed off the beast into the fire, suffered no hurt.
ACT 28:6 And the ones expecting him to be about to become inflamed, or to fall down suddenly dead, and for a long time of their expecting, and viewing that nothing out of place was happening to him, changing their minds, said him to be a god.
ACT 28:7 And in the parts around that place existed a place belonging to the foremost man of the island, by name Publius; who having received us, three days obligingly lodged us.
ACT 28:8 And it happened the father of Publius reclined constrained with fevers and dysentery; to whom Paul having entered, and having prayed, having placed the hands on him, healed him.
ACT 28:9 This then having taken place, also the rest, (the ones having sicknesses in the island,) came forward, and were cured.
ACT 28:10 Who also with much honor esteemed us; and embarking, placed the things for our need.
ACT 28:11 And after three months we embarked in a boat, (having passed the winter in the island,) an Alexandrian marked by the ensign Dioscuri.
ACT 28:12 And leading down unto Syracuse, we remained three days.
ACT 28:13 From where having gone around we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind ensued; on the second day we came into Puteoli.
ACT 28:14 Of which having found brothers, we were appealed upon by them to remain seven days. And thus to Rome we came.
ACT 28:15 And from there, the brothers having heard the things concerning us, came forth to meet us as far as Appii Forum, and Three Taverns. Whom Paul seeing, having given thanks to God, took courage.
ACT 28:16 And when we came unto Rome, the centurion delivered up the prisoners to the commander of the camp. But to Paul was committed to remain by himself with the soldier guarding him.
ACT 28:17 And it came to pass after three days, Paul calling together the ones being foremost of the Jews, and they having come together, he said to them, Men, brothers, I having done nothing against the people or the paternal customs, was delivered up a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans;
ACT 28:18 who, having questioned me, wanted to loose me, on account of the not one reason for death being in me.
ACT 28:19 But the Jews disputing, I was compelled to call upon Caesar; not as having anything to accuse my nation.
ACT 28:20 For this reason then I appealed to you, to see, and to speak to you; for on account of the hope of Israel I am encompassed with this chain.
ACT 28:21 And they said to him, We received neither letters concerning you from Judea, nor having come has any one of the brothers reported or spoke anything bad concerning you.
ACT 28:22 But we deem it worthy to hear from you what you think; for indeed concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against.
ACT 28:23 And arranging for him a day, there came to him many more unto his guest room; to whom he expounded, testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them the things concerning Jesus, from both the law of Moses, and of the prophets, from morning until evening.
ACT 28:24 And some indeed were persuaded to the things being said, and some disbelieved.
ACT 28:25 And being disharmonious with one another, they retired at Paul having spoken one discourse, that, Well the holy spirit spoke through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers,
ACT 28:26 saying, Go to this people, and say! In hearing you shall hear, and in no way should you perceive; and seeing you shall see, and in no way should you know.
ACT 28:27 For the heart of this people was thickened, and they heard heavily with the ears, and they closed the eyelids of their eyes; lest at any time they should see with the eyes, and should hear with the ears, and with the heart should perceive, and should turn, and I should heal them.
ACT 28:28 Let it be known then to you, that to the nations the deliverance of God was sent, and they will hearken!
ACT 28:29 And these things he having said, the Jews went forth having much debating among themselves.
ACT 28:30 And Paul stayed a whole space of two years in his own hired house, and gladly received all the ones entering to him,
ACT 28:31 proclaiming the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, unrestrainedly.
ROM 1:1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, a chosen apostle, being separated for the good news of God,
ROM 1:2 (which he preannounced through his prophets in holy scriptures,)
ROM 1:3 concerning his son, (the one born of the seed of David according to flesh;
ROM 1:4 the one being confirmed son of God in power, according to spirit of holiness, by a resurrection of the dead,) Jesus Christ our Lord;
ROM 1:5 through whom we received favor and a commission, for obedience of belief among all the nations, for his name;
ROM 1:6 among whom are also you, chosen of Jesus Christ.
ROM 1:7 To all the ones being in Rome, beloved of God, chosen holy ones. Favor to you, and peace from God our Father, and Lord Jesus Christ.
ROM 1:8 First indeed, I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, that the belief of yours is announced in the entire world.
ROM 1:9 For God is my witness, in whom I serve in my spirit in the good news of his son, how continually I make mention of you at all times at my prayers;
ROM 1:10 beseeching, (if by any means already at some time or other I shall prosper in the will of God,) to come to you.
ROM 1:11 For I long to see you, that some spiritual favor I should share with you for your support.
ROM 1:12 And this, it is to be comforted together with you through the belief that is in one another - both yours and mine.
ROM 1:13 But I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, for often I purposed to come to you, and was restrained as far as the coming, that I should have some fruit also among you, as also among the rest of the nations.
ROM 1:14 Both to Greeks and barbarians; both to wise ones and unthinking - I am a debtor.
ROM 1:15 So as to me to be eager also to announce good news to you the ones in Rome.
ROM 1:16 For not am I ashamed of the good news of the Christ; for it is power of God for deliverance to every one believing; both to the Jew first, and to the Greek.
ROM 1:17 For righteousness of God is revealed in it from out of belief for belief; as has been written, But the just one shall live from out of belief.
ROM 1:18 For anger of God is uncovered from heaven upon all impiety and unrighteousness of men, constraining the truth in unrighteousness.
ROM 1:19 For the thing made known of God is apparent among them; for God made it apparent to them.
ROM 1:20 For his unseen attributes, from the creation of the world, to the actions being comprehended, are looked at - both his everlasting power and divinity; for them to be inexcusable.
ROM 1:21 For having known God, they glorified him not as God, or gave thanks; but acted in folly in their thoughts, and their senseless heart was darkened.
ROM 1:22 Maintaining to be wise ones, they became moronish,
ROM 1:23 and they bartered the glory of the incorruptible God for a representation of an image of corruptible man, and birds, and four-footed creatures, and reptiles.
ROM 1:24 Therefore also God delivered them up in the desires of their hearts, unto uncleanness, to dishonor their bodies among themselves.
ROM 1:25 The ones who changed over the truth of God into the lie, and worshiped and served to the created thing over the one having created it, who is blessed into the eons. Amen.
ROM 1:26 On account of this God delivered them up unto passions of dishonor. For both their females changed over the physical use unto the one against nature.
ROM 1:27 And indeed in like manner the males, leaving the physical use of the female, burned away in their lust for one another - males in males manufacturing indecency, and accepting in themselves the compensation which was a necessity of their delusion.
ROM 1:28 And as they tried not to hold God in full knowledge, God delivered them up unto a debased mind, to do the things not fitting;
ROM 1:29 being filled with all unrighteousness, harlotry, wickedness, desire for wealth, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, treachery, depraved morals, whisperers,
ROM 1:30 speaking vulgarities, hating God, insulting, proud, ostentatious, devisers of evils, to parents resisting persuasion,
ROM 1:31 senseless, contract-breakers, unaffectionate, hostile, unmerciful.
ROM 1:32 The ones who recognizing the ordinance of God, (that the ones acting such are worthy of death,) not only do the same, but also are assenting with the ones acting such.
ROM 2:1 Therefore you are inexcusable, O man, every one judging. For in which way you judge the other, yourself you condemn; for you do the same things, O one judging.
ROM 2:2 For we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon the ones doing such things.
ROM 2:3 But do you think this, O man, (the one judging the ones doing such things, and yourself doing them,) that you shall flee from the judgment of God?
ROM 2:4 Or the riches of his graciousness and the forbearance and the leniency do you disdain; not knowing that the graciousness of God leads you to repentance?
ROM 2:5 But according to your hardness and impenitent heart you treasure up to yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;
ROM 2:6 who will recompense each according to his works.
ROM 2:7 To the ones with endurance of good work, seeking anxiously glory and honor and incorruptibility - life eternal.
ROM 2:8 And to the ones of contention and resisting persuasion, indeed to the truth, and being yielded to iniquity - rage and wrath,
ROM 2:9 affliction and straits, upon every soul of man manufacturing the evil thing - both of Jew first, and Greek;
ROM 2:10 but glory, and honor, and peace to all working the good - both to the Jew first, and Greek.
ROM 2:11 For there is not a discrimination by God.
ROM 2:12 For as many as lawlessly sinned, lawlessly also they shall perish. And as many as in law sinned, by law they shall be judged;
ROM 2:13 ( for the listeners of the law are not just ones with God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
ROM 2:14 For whenever nations not having law by nature should do the things of the law, these, not having law are to themselves law -
ROM 2:15 ones who demonstrate the work of the law written in their hearts, of their conscience bearing witness with and between one another, with devices charging or also making a defense;)
ROM 2:16 in a day when God judges the hidden things of men, (according to my good news,) through Jesus Christ.
ROM 2:17 Behold! you are named a Jew, and rest upon the law, and boast in God,
ROM 2:18 and you know the will, and you distinguish the differences, being instructed out of the law;
ROM 2:19 also persuading yourself to be a guide of the blind, a light of the ones in darkness,
ROM 2:20 a corrector of foolish ones, a teacher of infants, having the appearance of the knowledge and of the truth in the law.
ROM 2:21 The one then teaching another - do you not teach yourself? The one proclaiming, not to steal - do you steal?
ROM 2:22 The one saying, do not commit adultery - do you commit adultery? The one abhorring the idols - do you commit sacrilege?
ROM 2:23 The one who boasts in the law - through the violation of the law do you dishonor God?
ROM 2:24 For the name of God is blasphemed through you among the nations, as it has been written.
ROM 2:25 For indeed circumcision derives benefit if you should practice the law. But if you should be a violator of the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
ROM 2:26 If then the uncircumcised keep the ordinances of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be considered for circumcision?
ROM 2:27 And the one by nature uncircumcised fulfilling the law shall judge you, the one with contract and circumcision, but a violator of the law.
ROM 2:28 For not the one in the open is a Jew, nor the thing in the open in flesh circumcision.
ROM 2:29 But the one in the hiding is a Jew, and circumcision is in the heart, in spirit, not by contract; of whom the high praise is not of men, but of God.
ROM 3:1 Then what is the extra thing of the Jew, or what is the benefit of the circumcision?
ROM 3:2 Much in every manner. For indeed first that they were trusted with the oracles of God.
ROM 3:3 For what if some disbelieved? does their unbelief cease to work the belief of God?
ROM 3:4 May it not be. But let God be true, and every man a liar; as it has been written that, You should be justified in your words, and should overcome in your being judged.
ROM 3:5 But if our unrighteousness commends God's righteousness, what shall we say? Is God unjust, the one bearing upon the anger? (according to man I speak.)
ROM 3:6 May it not be; since how shall God judge the world?
ROM 3:7 For if the truth of God abounded in my untruth to his glory; why yet also I as a sinner am judged?
ROM 3:8 And not, as we are blasphemed, and as some say we say, that, We should do the bad things that the good things should come - their judgment is just.
ROM 3:9 What then, Do we have an advantage? Assuredly not. For we showed before both Jews and Greeks, all to be under sin;
ROM 3:10 as it has been written, There is not a just one, not even one.
ROM 3:11 There is not the one perceiving, there is not the one seeking after God.
ROM 3:12 All have turned aside, together they became useless; there is not one having graciousness; there is not even one.
ROM 3:13 Their throat having been opened is a tomb. With their tongues they use deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips;
ROM 3:14 whose mouth is full of curse and bitterness.
ROM 3:15 Keen are their feet to pour out blood;
ROM 3:16 destruction and misery are in their ways;
ROM 3:17 and the way of peace they knew not.
ROM 3:18 There is not a fear of God before their eyes.
ROM 3:19 And we know that as much as the law says, it speaks to the ones in the law; that every mouth should be shut, and all the world should be subject to trial to God.
ROM 3:20 For by works of law all flesh shall not be justified before him. For through law is full knowledge of sin.
ROM 3:21 But now righteousness of God has been made apparent separate of law, being witnessed by the law and the prophets -
ROM 3:22 even righteousness of God through belief of Jesus Christ unto all and for all the ones trusting; for there is not a difference.
ROM 3:23 For all sinned and lack the glory of God;
ROM 3:24 being justified without charge by his favor, through the release by ransom by Christ Jesus.
ROM 3:25 Whom God set forth as an atonement-seat, through the belief in his blood, for a demonstration of his righteousness through the letting pass the preceding sins;
ROM 3:26 in the forbearance of God, for a demonstration of his righteousness in the present time; for his being just and justifying the one of belief of Jesus.
ROM 3:27 Where then is the boasting? It was excluded. Through what kind of law? of the works? No, but through a law of belief.
ROM 3:28 We consider then a man to be justified by belief, separate from works of law.
ROM 3:29 Or is God only of Jews? But is he not also of nations? Yes, also of nations.
ROM 3:30 Since indeed there is one God who shall justify the circumcision of belief and uncircumcision through the belief,
ROM 3:31 then do we render law useless through the belief? May it not be. But we establish law.
ROM 4:1 What then shall we say Abraham our father has found according to flesh?
ROM 4:2 For if Abraham was justified of works, he has boasting, but not towards God.
ROM 4:3 For what does the scripture say? But Abraham trusted in God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness.
ROM 4:4 And to the one working, the wage is not considered according to favor, but according to the debt.
ROM 4:5 But to the one not working, but trusts upon the one justifying the impious one, his trust is imputed for righteousness.
ROM 4:6 Just as also David says about the blessing of the man to whom God imputes righteousness separate from works, saying,
ROM 4:7 Blessed are whom the lawless deeds were forgiven, and whom the sins were covered over.
ROM 4:8 Blessed is a man in whom in no way the Lord should impute sin.
ROM 4:9 Is this blessing then upon the circumcision only, or also upon the uncircumcision? For we say that belief was imputed to Abraham for righteousness.
ROM 4:10 How then was it imputed? being in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
ROM 4:11 And he received the sign of circumcision - a seal of the righteousness of the belief while being in the uncircumcision; for him to be father of all of the ones trusting through uncircumcision, for the righteousness to be imputed also to them.
ROM 4:12 And father of circumcision to the ones not of circumcision only, but also to the ones conforming to the tracks of the belief - to the ones in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.
ROM 4:13 For not through law was the promise to Abraham or to his seed, for him to be heir of the world, but through righteousness of belief.
ROM 4:14 For if the ones from the law be heirs, the belief is empty, and the promise ceases to work.
ROM 4:15 For the law manufactures wrath. For where there is not law, not even is there a violation.
ROM 4:16 On account of this it is of belief, that according to favor, for the promise to be firm to all the seed - not to the one of the law only, but also to the one of belief of Abraham; who is father of all of us,
ROM 4:17 (as it has been written that, I have established you father of many nations, ) in front of which he trusted God restoring the dead to life, and calling the ones not being, as being;
ROM 4:18 who against hope trusted upon hope, for him to become father of many nations, according to the thing being said, So shall your seed be.
ROM 4:19 And not being weak in belief, he contemplated not his own body already deadened, being somewhere about a hundred years old, and the deadening of the womb of Sarah.
ROM 4:20 And at the promise of God he did not examine by unbelief, but was empowered in belief, giving glory to God;
ROM 4:21 and having full assurance that what he has promised, he is able also to do.
ROM 4:22 Therefore also it was imputed to him for righteousness.
ROM 4:23 But it was not written on account of him only, that it was imputed to him;
ROM 4:24 but also on account of us, to whom it was about to be imputed, to the ones trusting upon the one having raised Jesus our Lord from the dead;
ROM 4:25 who was delivered up on account of our transgressions, and was raised on account of our justification.
ROM 5:1 Having been justified then of belief, we have peace towards God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
ROM 5:2 Through whom also we have access by the belief into this favor in which we stand, and boast upon hope of the glory of God.
ROM 5:3 And not only that, but also we boast in the afflictions; knowing that the affliction manufactures endurance;
ROM 5:4 and the endurance - proof; and the proof - hope;
ROM 5:5 and the hope does not shame; for the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through holy spirit having been given to us.
ROM 5:6 For still while we were weak Christ died in due time for the impious ones.
ROM 5:7 For hardly for a just one shall one die; for over the good one perhaps someone even dares to die;
ROM 5:8 but God commends his own love for us, that yet we being sinners, Christ died for us.
ROM 5:9 Much more then, having been justified now in his blood, we shall be delivered by him from the wrath.
ROM 5:10 For if, being enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be delivered by his life.
ROM 5:11 And not only that, but also boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom now we received the reconciliation.
ROM 5:12 On account of this, as if through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin - death; and thus to all men death went through, because by which reason all sinned.
ROM 5:13 For until law sin was in the world - but sin not charged, (not being a law.)
ROM 5:14 But death reigned from Adam until Moses, reigning even upon the ones not having sinned in the likeness of the violation of Adam, who is a model of the one being about to come.
ROM 5:15 But shall not as the transgression, so also be the favor? For if in the transgression of the one the many died, to many more the favor of God, (and the gift by favor in the favor of the one man Jesus Christ to many,) abounded.
ROM 5:16 And not as by one man having sinned the gift. For indeed the judgment of one was unto condemnation, but the favor from out of many transgressions was unto justice.
ROM 5:17 For if in the transgression of the one man death reigned through the one man; how much more the ones receiving the abundance of the favor and the gift of righteousness shall reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.
ROM 5:18 It is so then as through one transgression it was unto all men for condemnation; so also through one right action it was unto all men for justification of life.
ROM 5:19 For as by the disobedience of the one man many were established as sinners; so also by the obedience of the one man many shall be established as just ones.
ROM 5:20 But law entered privately, that transgression should be superabundant. But where sin was superabundant, favor superabounded.
ROM 5:21 That as sin reigned in death, so also the favor should reign through righteousness to life eternal through Jesus Christ our Lord.
ROM 6:1 What then shall we say? Shall we remain in sin that favor should be superabundant?
ROM 6:2 May it not be. We who died to sin, how shall we still live in it?
ROM 6:3 Or do you not know that as many as we were immersed unto Christ Jesus, unto his death we were immersed?
ROM 6:4 We were buried together then with him through the immersion into death. That as Christ arose from the dead by the glory of the father, so also we in newness of life should walk.
ROM 6:5 For if we have become planted together in the likeness of his death, so also of his resurrection we shall be.
ROM 6:6 Knowing this, that our old man was crucified along with him, that the body of sin should cease work, that we no longer are to be a slave to sin.
ROM 6:7 For the one having died has been justified from sin.
ROM 6:8 And if we died with Christ, we trust that also we shall live together with him.
ROM 6:9 Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, no longer dies; death no longer dominates him.
ROM 6:10 For the fact he died - he died to sin once for all. But the fact he lives - he lives to God.
ROM 6:11 So also you consider yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but being alive to God, in Christ Jesus our Lord.
ROM 6:12 Then let not sin reign in your mortal body, for the obeying it in its desires!
ROM 6:13 Nor present your members as weapons of iniquity to sin! But render yourselves to God, as one living from out of the dead, and your members as weapons of righteousness to God!
ROM 6:14 For sin shall not dominate you. For you are not under law, but under favor.
ROM 6:15 What then, should we sin that we are not under law, but under favor? May it not be.
ROM 6:16 Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves servants to obedience, you are servants to whom you obey; either sin unto death, or obedience unto righteousness?
ROM 6:17 But favor to God, for you were slaves of sin, but you obeyed from the heart in which model of teaching you were delivered by.
ROM 6:18 And having been set free from sin, you were enslaved to righteousness.
ROM 6:19 Humanly I speak, on account of the weakness of your flesh. For as you rendered your members subservient to uncleanness and to lawlessness unto lawlessness; so now render your members subservient to righteousness unto sanctification!
ROM 6:20 For when you were servants of sin, you were free in righteousness.
ROM 6:21 What fruit therefore had you then, in the things in which now you are ashamed? For the end of those things is death.
ROM 6:22 But now, having been set free from sin, and having been enslaved to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end - life eternal.
ROM 6:23 For the rations of sin is death; but the favor of God is life eternal in Christ Jesus our Lord.
ROM 7:1 Or do you not know, brothers, (for to the ones knowing law I speak,) that the law dominates the man over as much time as he lives?
ROM 7:2 For the married woman is tied by law to the living husband; but if the husband should die, she is cleared from the law of the husband.
ROM 7:3 Surely then with the husband living, she shall be treated as an adulteress, if she becomes to another man. But if the husband should die, she is free from the law; for her to not be an adulteress, having become to another man.
ROM 7:4 So that, my brothers, also you were put to death to the law through the body of the Christ; for you to become to another, to the one being arisen from the dead, that we should bear fruit to God.
ROM 7:5 For when we were in the flesh, the passions of the sins through the law exerted energy in our members for the bearing fruit to death.
ROM 7:6 But now we were cleared from the law, having died by which we were held; so as for us to serve in newness of spirit, and not oldness of contract.
ROM 7:7 What then shall we say? Is the law sin? May it not be. But sin I knew not, except through the law. For also I knew not lust, except the law said, You shall not lust.
ROM 7:8 But sin taking an opportunity through the commandment, manufactured every lust in me. For separate from the law sin was dead.
ROM 7:9 And I was alive separate from the law at some time or other; but the commandment having come, sin was revived, and I died.
ROM 7:10 And the commandment for life was found by me, for this to be to death.
ROM 7:11 For sin having taken opportunity through the commandment, cheated me, and through it killed me.
ROM 7:12 So that the law indeed is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good.
ROM 7:13 The thing then good - has it become death to me? May it not be. But sin, that it should appear sin, through the good in me manufacturing death; that sin should become excessively sinful through the commandment.
ROM 7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual. But I am fleshly, having been sold under sin.
ROM 7:15 For what I manufacture, I do not know. For not what I want to do, this I practice. And what I detest, this I do.
ROM 7:16 But if what I do not want to do, this I do, then I assent to the law that it is good.
ROM 7:17 But now, no longer I manufacture it, but it is sin living in me.
ROM 7:18 For I know that there does not live in me (that is to say, in my flesh,) good. For the will is present with me, but the manufacturing the good I do not find.
ROM 7:19 For I do not do the good which I want to do, but the evil which I do not want to do, this I practice.
ROM 7:20 But if what I do not want to do, this I do; no longer I manufacture it, but it is sin living in me.
ROM 7:21 I find then the law wanting in me to do the good, that with me the evil is present.
ROM 7:22 For I delight in the law of God according to the inside man.
ROM 7:23 But I see another law in my members, undertaking an expedition against the law of my mind, and captivating me to the law of sin being in my members.
ROM 7:24 O miserable man am I. Who shall rescue me from this body of death?
ROM 7:25 I give thanks to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. It is so, then. I myself indeed to the mind serve the law of God, but to the flesh the law of sin.
ROM 8:1 In nothing then is there now condemnation to the ones in Christ Jesus, not walking according to the flesh, but according to spirit.
ROM 8:2 For the law of the spirit of the life in Christ Jesus freed me from the law of sin and of death.
ROM 8:3 For the powerlessness of the law, in which it was weak through the flesh, God sent forth his own son in the likeness of flesh of sin, and concerning sin condemned sin in the flesh.
ROM 8:4 That the ordinance of the law should be fulfilled in us, to the ones not walking according to flesh, but according to spirit.
ROM 8:5 For the ones being according to flesh think the things of the flesh; but the ones according to spirit think the things of the spirit.
ROM 8:6 For the thought of the flesh is death, but the thought of the spirit is life and peace.
ROM 8:7 For the thought of the flesh is hatred to God; for to the law of God it submits not, for neither is it able;
ROM 8:8 and the ones being in flesh are not able to please God.
ROM 8:9 But you are not in flesh, but in spirit, if indeed spirit of God lives in you. But if anyone does not have spirit of Christ, this one is not of him.
ROM 8:10 But if Christ is in you, indeed the body is dead on account of sin, but the spirit is life through righteousness.
ROM 8:11 And if the spirit of the one raising Jesus from the dead lives in you, the one having raised the Christ from the dead shall restore to life also your mortal bodies on account of his spirit dwelling in you.
ROM 8:12 It is so then, brothers, we are not debtors to the flesh, to live according to flesh.
ROM 8:13 For if you live according to flesh you are about to die. But if in spirit you put to death the actions of the body you shall live.
ROM 8:14 For as many as are led in spirit of God, these are sons of God.
ROM 8:15 For you received not a spirit of slavery again unto fear; but you received a spirit of adoption, in which we cry out, Abba, Father.
ROM 8:16 The spirit itself bears witness together to our spirit, that we are children of God.
ROM 8:17 And if children, also heirs; heirs indeed of God, but joint-heirs of Christ; if indeed we suffer together, that also we should be glorified together.
ROM 8:18 For I consider that the sufferings of the present time are not worthy to be compared to the glory about to be uncovered unto us.
ROM 8:19 For the earnest expectation of the creation awaits the uncovering of the sons of God.
ROM 8:20 For to vanity the creation was submitted, not willingly, but through the one submitting upon hope;
ROM 8:21 that even the creation itself shall be freed from the slavery of corruption, unto the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
ROM 8:22 For we know that all creation groans together and suffers distress together as far as the present.
ROM 8:23 And not only that, but also ourselves, having the first-fruit of the spirit, even we ourselves moan in ourselves, awaiting adoption - the release by ransom of our body.
ROM 8:24 For in the hope we were delivered. But hope being seen is not hope. For what anyone sees, why also does he hope?
ROM 8:25 But if we hope for what we see not, we await by endurance.
ROM 8:26 And likewise also the spirit aids in our weaknesses. For the thing - what we pray for according to necessity, we know not. But the spirit itself intercedes for us with unutterable moanings.
ROM 8:27 But the one searching the hearts knows what the thought of the spirit is, for according to God it intercedes for the holy ones.
ROM 8:28 But we know that to the ones loving God all things work together for good, to the ones being called according to purpose.
ROM 8:29 For of whom he foreknew, also he predefined conformable to the image of his son, for him to be first-born among many brothers.
ROM 8:30 But the ones whom he predefined, these also he called. And whom he called, these also he justified. And whom he justified, these also he glorified.
ROM 8:31 What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us?
ROM 8:32 The one who indeed spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also grant all things to us with him?
ROM 8:33 Who accuses against the chosen of God? God is the one justifying.
ROM 8:34 Who is the one condemning? Christ is the one having died, and more, also being arisen, who also is at the right of God, who also intercedes for us.
ROM 8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of the Christ? affliction, or straits, or persecution, or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
ROM 8:36 As it has been written that, Because of you we are put to death the entire day; we are considered as sheep for slaughter.
ROM 8:37 But in all these things we are completely victorious through the one having loved us.
ROM 8:38 For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor sovereignties, nor powers, nor things present, nor things about to be,
ROM 8:39 nor height, nor depth, nor any other creation, shall be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
ROM 9:1 I speak truth in Christ, I do not lie, (bearing witness with me is my conscience in holy spirit, )
ROM 9:2 that great distress is with me, and continual grief in my heart.
ROM 9:3 For I would make a vow, I myself, to be anathema from the Christ for my brothers, of my relatives according to flesh;
ROM 9:4 the ones who are Israelites, whom is the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the legislation, and the service, and the promises;
ROM 9:5 whom are the fathers, and of whom the Christ came according to flesh, the one being over all - God blessed into the eons. Amen.
ROM 9:6 But not such as that the word of God has fallen; for not all the ones of Israel are these Israel.
ROM 9:7 And not that all children are seed of Abraham - but, In Isaac a seed shall be called to you.
ROM 9:8 That is to say, not the children of the flesh are these children of God; but the children of the promise are imputed for seed.
ROM 9:9 For of promise is this word, According to this time I will come, and a son will be to Sarah.
ROM 9:10 And not only this, but also Rebecca from out of one marriage-bed had Isaac our father;
ROM 9:11 (for not yet being born, nor having done anything good or bad, that the intention of God should abide according to choice, not from works, but of the one calling;)
ROM 9:12 it was said to her that, The greater shall serve the lesser.
ROM 9:13 As it has been written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I detested.
ROM 9:14 What then shall we say? Is there not injustice with God? May it not be.
ROM 9:15 For to Moses he says, I will show mercy on whom ever I should show mercy, and I shall pity whom ever I should pity.
ROM 9:16 So then it is not of the one wanting, nor of the one running, but of the God showing mercy.
ROM 9:17 For the scripture says speaking to Pharaoh that, For this same thing I awakened you, so that I should demonstrate in you my power, and so that I should declare my name in all the earth.
ROM 9:18 So then whom he wants, he shows mercy; but whom he wants, he hardens.
ROM 9:19 You will say then to me, Why yet does he complain? For against his will who has opposed?
ROM 9:20 Certainly, O man, who are you answering to God? Shall the thing shaped say to the one shaping, Why have you made me thus?
ROM 9:21 Or has not the potter authority of the clay, from out of the same batch, to make the one indeed for a vessel of honor, and the other for dishonor?
ROM 9:22 And if God wanting to demonstrate the wrath, and to make known his might, he bore with much leniency vessels of wrath being readied for destruction.
ROM 9:23 And that he should make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory,
ROM 9:24 whom also he called us not only from out of Jews, but also from out of nations,
ROM 9:25 (as also in Hosea he says, I will call the one not my people, My people; and the one not being loved, One being loved.
ROM 9:26 And it will be in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people; there they shall be called Sons of the living God.
ROM 9:27 And Isaiah cries out over Israel, saying, Though the number of the sons of Israel should be as the sand of the sea, the vestige shall be preserved;)
ROM 9:28 for completing a reckoning, and rendering it concise in righteousness; that the Lord will make a concise reckoning upon the earth.
ROM 9:29 And as Isaiah described before, Unless the Lord of host left behind for us a seed, we would have become as Sodom, and we would have been like as Gomorrah.
ROM 9:30 What then shall we say? That nations not pursuing righteousness, overtook righteousness; but righteousness - the one of belief.
ROM 9:31 But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, attained not unto the law of righteousness.
ROM 9:32 Why? Because it was not of belief, but as of works of law. For they stumbled against the stone of stumbling;
ROM 9:33 as it has been written, Behold, I put in Zion a stone of stumbling and rock of offence; and every one believing upon him shall not be disgraced.
ROM 10:1 Brothers, indeed the good-pleasure of my heart, and the supplication towards God for Israel is for deliverance.
ROM 10:2 For I bear witness to them that they have zeal of God, but not according to full knowledge.
ROM 10:3 For being ignorant of the thing of the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they submitted not to the righteousness of God.
ROM 10:4 For Christ is the end for righteousness of the law to every one believing.
ROM 10:5 For Moses writes about the righteousness of the law, that, The man observing them shall live by them.
ROM 10:6 But of the righteousness of belief thus he says, You should not say in your heart, Who shall ascend unto the heaven? that is to say, to lead Christ down;
ROM 10:7 or, Who shall go down into the abyss? that is to say, to lead Christ from the dead.
ROM 10:8 But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart; (that is to say, the word of the belief which we proclaim;)
ROM 10:9 that if you should acknowledge in your mouth the Lord Jesus, and should believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you shall be delivered.
ROM 10:10 For the heart believes unto righteousness; and the mouth acknowledges to deliverance.
ROM 10:11 For the scripture says, Every one believing upon him shall not be disgraced.
ROM 10:12 For there is not a difference both of Jew and Greek; for the same Lord of all is being rich unto all the ones calling upon him.
ROM 10:13 For every one who ever should call upon the name of the Lord shall be delivered.
ROM 10:14 How then should they call unto whom they do not believe? And how shall they believe of whom they heard not? And how shall they hear separate from one proclaiming?
ROM 10:15 And how shall they proclaim, if there should not be one sent? As it has been written, How beautiful the feet of the ones announcing good news of peace; of the ones announcing good news of good things.
ROM 10:16 But not all hearkened to the good news. For Isaiah says, O Lord, who believed our report?
ROM 10:17 So the belief is from report, and the report through the word of God.
ROM 10:18 But I say, Did they not hear? Certainly, for their knell went forth unto all the earth, and their words went unto the ends of the habitable world.
ROM 10:19 But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses says, I will provoke you to jealousy over that not a nation; by a senseless nation I will provoke you to anger.
ROM 10:20 And Isaiah was very bold, and he says, I was found by the ones not seeking me; I became apparent to the ones not asking for me.
ROM 10:21 But to Israel he says, The entire day I spread forth my hands to a people resisting persuasion and disputing.
ROM 11:1 I say then, Did God thrust away his people? May it not be. For even I am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
ROM 11:2 God did not thrust away his people whom he foreknew. Or do you not know in Elijah what the scripture says? how he intercedes with God according to Israel, saying,
ROM 11:3 O Lord, they killed your prophets, and your altars they razed; and I alone am left, and they seek my life.
ROM 11:4 But what says the divine answer to him? I left behind to myself seven thousand men, who have not bent a knee to Baal.
ROM 11:5 So then also in the present time a remnant according to choice of favor takes place.
ROM 11:6 But if by favor, no longer of works; else the favor no longer becomes favor. But if of works, no longer is it favor; else the work no longer is work.
ROM 11:7 What then? What Israel seeks anxiously for, this it did not succeed in; but the chosen succeeded, and the remaining were callous,
ROM 11:8 (as it has been written, God gave to them a spirit of vexation, of eyes to not see, and ears to not hear;) until today's day.
ROM 11:9 And David says, Let their table become for a snare, and for a trap, and for an obstacle, and for a recompense to them!
ROM 11:10 Let their eyes be darkened to not see, and their back always bent downwards!
ROM 11:11 I say then, Did they stumble that they should fall? May it not be. But in their transgression the deliverance came to the nations, for the provoking them to jealousy.
ROM 11:12 But if their transgression was for the wealth of the world, and their vanquishing for the wealth of nations; how much more their fullness?
ROM 11:13 For I speak to you nations; upon as much as indeed I am an apostle of nations, I glorify my service.
ROM 11:14 If by any means I should provoke to jealousy the ones of my flesh, and shall deliver some from among them.
ROM 11:15 For if the casting off of them be for the reconciliation of the world, what will be the reception of them, unless life from the dead.
ROM 11:16 And if the first-fruit be holy, also the batch; and if the root be holy, also the branches.
ROM 11:17 But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were engrafted in them, and became fellow-partakers of the root and the fatness of the olive tree;
ROM 11:18 glory not over the branches! But if you gloried over them, know that you do not bear the root, but the root bears you.
ROM 11:19 You will say then, the branches were broken off that I should be engrafted.
ROM 11:20 Well; in unbelief they were broken off, and you in belief stand. Be not high-minded, but fear.
ROM 11:21 For if God spared not the branches according to nature, perhaps not even you he shall spare.
ROM 11:22 Behold then the graciousness and severity of God! Indeed upon the ones having fallen - severity; but upon you - graciousness, if you should remain in graciousness; else also you shall be cut off.
ROM 11:23 And also those, if they do not remain in unbelief, shall be engrafted; for God is able again to engraft them.
ROM 11:24 For if you, were cut off from the wild olive tree according to nature, and contrary to nature were engrafted into the fruitful olive tree; how much more these according to nature, shall be engrafted into their own olive tree?
ROM 11:25 For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery, that you should not be intelligent in yourselves, that callousness has happened in part to Israel until of which the fullness of the nations should enter in.
ROM 11:26 And so all Israel shall be delivered; as it has been written, The one rescuing shall come from out of Zion, and shall turn impious deeds from Jacob.
ROM 11:27 And this is the covenant to them by me, whenever I should remove their sins.
ROM 11:28 Indeed according to the good news, enemies for your account; but according to the selection, beloved on account of the fathers.
ROM 11:29 For irrevocable are the favors and the calling of God.
ROM 11:30 For as also you at some time or other resisted persuasion to God, but now you were shown mercy in the disobedience of these;
ROM 11:31 so also these now resisted persuasion to your mercy, that also they should be shown mercy.
ROM 11:32 For God closed up all of the ones in disobedience, that all of the ones he should show mercy.
ROM 11:33 O the depth of wealth and wisdom and knowledge of God; as unsearchable are his judgments, and untraceable are his ways.
ROM 11:34 For who knew the mind of the Lord, or who became his counselor?
ROM 11:35 Or who first gave to him and he shall recompense to him?
ROM 11:36 For from out of him, and through him, and unto him, are all things. To him be the glory into the eons. Amen.
ROM 12:1 Then I exhort you, brothers, by the compassions of God, to present your bodies living sacrifices, holy, well-pleasing to God, the rational service of yours.
ROM 12:2 And be not conformed to this eon; but be transformed in the renewal of your mind, in the trying of yourselves in what is the good and well-pleasing and perfect will of God!
ROM 12:3 For I say, by the favor being given to me, to every one being among you, to not be high-minded above what you must think; but to think to be of a sound mind, to each as God portioned a measure of belief.
ROM 12:4 For just as in one body we have many members, but all the members do not have the same action;
ROM 12:5 thus we the many are one body in Christ, and each one members of one another.
ROM 12:6 But having diverse favors according to the favor being given to us; whether prophecy, let it be according to the ratio of the belief;
ROM 12:7 whether service - in the service; whether the teaching - in the instruction;
ROM 12:8 whether the comforting - in the comfort; the sharing - in simplicity; the being in charge - with diligence; the showing of mercy - with happiness;
ROM 12:9 the love - unpretentious; abhorring the evil - cleaving to the good;
ROM 12:10 in the brotherly affection - having a strong natural affection for one another; in the honor - giving preference for one another;
ROM 12:11 in the diligence - not lazy; in the spirit - bubbling; to the Lord - serving;
ROM 12:12 in the hope - rejoicing; in the affliction - enduring; in the prayer - constantly attending to;
ROM 12:13 in the needs of the holy ones - participating in; the hospitality - pursuing.
ROM 12:14 Bless the ones persecuting you! Bless and do not curse!
ROM 12:15 Rejoice with ones rejoicing, and weep with ones weeping!
ROM 12:16 Be thinking the same to one another; not the high thinking, but associating with the lowly. Do not become intelligent for yourselves!
ROM 12:17 To no one rendering bad for bad. Thinking beforehand good things before all men.
ROM 12:18 If possible, as to yourselves, being at peace with all men;
ROM 12:19 not by yourselves avenging, beloved, but give place to wrath! For it has been written, Vengeance is mine; I will recompense, says the Lord.
ROM 12:20 If then your enemy should hunger, feed him! If he should thirst, give him a drink! For this doing you shall heap coals of fire upon his head.
ROM 12:21 Be not overcome by the evil, but overcome the evil by the good!
ROM 13:1 Every soul be submitted to authorities being superior! For there is not an authority unless from God. And the ones being authorities are ordered by God.
ROM 13:2 So that the one rebelling against the authority, opposes in the disposition of God; and the ones opposing, shall receive judgment to themselves.
ROM 13:3 For the rulers are not a fear of the ones of good works, but of the ones of evils. But you should not want to be fearful of the authority - by the doing good even you shall have high praise from it.
ROM 13:4 For it is a servant of God to you for good. But if you should do evil, fear! For it does not wear the sword in vain. For it is a servant of God, punishing for wrath to the one doing evil.
ROM 13:5 Therefore it is a necessity to be submitted, not only because of the wrath, but also because of the conscience.
ROM 13:6 For on account of this also fulfill paying the tribute! For they are ministers of God in this same thing attending to constantly.
ROM 13:7 Render then to all the debts! To the one for the tribute - the tribute; to the one for the tax - the tax; to the one commanding fear - the fear; to the one commanding honor - the honor.
ROM 13:8 To no one owe anything, unless it be loving one another. For the one loving the other has fulfilled the law.
ROM 13:9 For the commandment, You shall not commit adultery; you shall not murder; you shall not steal; you shall not lust; and if any other commandment, in this the word is recapitulated in the saying, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
ROM 13:10 Love to the neighbor works not evil, love then is the fullness of the law.
ROM 13:11 Also this, knowing the time, that the hour we already arise from out of sleep. For now deliverance is nearer us than when we believed.
ROM 13:12 The night progressed, and the day approaches. We should put aside then the works of darkness, and put on the weapons of the light.
ROM 13:13 As we should walk decently by day; not in debaucheries and in intoxications, not in beds and in lewdnesses, not in strife and in jealousy.
ROM 13:14 But clothe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not have forethought for desire of the flesh.
ROM 14:1 But the one being weak in belief take to yourselves, not for distinction of arguings!
ROM 14:2 Indeed one trusts to eat all things. And the one being weak eats vegetables.
ROM 14:3 The one eating, treat not with contempt the one not eating! And the one not eating, judge not the one eating! For God received him to himself.
ROM 14:4 Who are you, the one judging a stranger's servant? To his own master he stands or falls. But he shall be established, for God is able to establish him.
ROM 14:5 The one who indeed judges a day over a day, and the one who judges every day alike - let each have full assurance in his own mind!
ROM 14:6 The one regarding the day, regards it to the Lord; and the one not regarding the day, regards it not to the Lord. The one eating, eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and the one not eating, eats not to the Lord, and he gives thanks to God.
ROM 14:7 For not one of us lives to himself, and no one dies to himself.
ROM 14:8 For if both we should live, we should live to the Lord; and if we should die, we should die to the Lord. If both then we should live, and if we should die, we are of the Lord.
ROM 14:9 For, for this Christ both died, and rose up, and lived, that both the dead and living he should lord over.
ROM 14:10 But you, why do you judge your brother? Or also why do you treat with contempt your brother? For all of us shall stand before the rostrum of the Christ.
ROM 14:11 For it has been written, As I live, says the Lord, that to me every knee shall bend, and every tongue shall make acknowledgment to God.
ROM 14:12 So then each of us concerning himself shall give account to God.
ROM 14:13 No longer then should we judge one another. But this judge rather - the not putting an occasion of stumbling to the brother or an obstacle!
ROM 14:14 I know, and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is profane of itself. Except to the one considering anything to be profane - to that one it is profane.
ROM 14:15 But if your brother frets on account of food, no longer do you walk according to love. Do not destroy that one by your food, for whom Christ died!
ROM 14:16 Let then your good not be blasphemed!
ROM 14:17 For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in holy spirit.
ROM 14:18 For the one serving the Christ in these things is well-pleasing to God, and approved by men.
ROM 14:19 So then, the things of peace we should pursue, and the things of the edifying the thing for one another.
ROM 14:20 Do not destroy the work of God because of food. All things indeed are pure, but it is evil to the man who eats by an occasion of stumbling someone.
ROM 14:21 It is good to not eat meats, nor to drink wine, nor anything in which your brother stumbles against, or be caused to stumble, or is weak.
ROM 14:22 You have belief? According to yourself have it before God! Blessed is the one not judging himself in what he distinguishes.
ROM 14:23 But the one scrutinizing, if he should eat, has been condemned, for it is not of belief; and everything which is not of belief is sin.
ROM 15:1 But we the ones able ought to bear the weaknesses of the powerless, and not to please just ourselves.
ROM 15:2 For let each of us please his neighbor for good and for edifying!
ROM 15:3 For even the Christ pleased not himself. But as it has been written, The scornings of the ones berating you fell upon me.
ROM 15:4 For as much as was written beforehand, was written beforehand for our instruction, that through the endurance and on account of the comfort of the scriptures we should have hope.
ROM 15:5 And the God of patience and comfort - may he give to you the same regard with one another according to Christ Jesus.
ROM 15:6 That with one accord in one mouth you should glorify the God and father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
ROM 15:7 Therefore take to yourself one another, as also the Christ took you to himself for the glory of God!
ROM 15:8 But I say, Christ Jesus has become a servant of the circumcision for the truth of God, for the firming the promises of the fathers;
ROM 15:9 and the nations for mercy to glorify God, as it has been written, saying, Because of this I will make acknowledgment to you among the nations, and to your name I will strum.
ROM 15:10 And again it says, Be glad, O nations, with his people!
ROM 15:11 And again, Praise the Lord, all nations! And praise him all peoples!
ROM 15:12 And again Isaiah says, There will be the root of Jesse, and the one rising up to rule nations - upon him nations shall hope.
ROM 15:13 And the God of hope - may he fill you with all joy and peace in trusting, for you abounding in the hope, in power of holy spirit.
ROM 15:14 But I am persuaded, my brothers, even I myself, concerning you, that you also are full of goodness, being filled with all knowledge, being able even to admonish others.
ROM 15:15 But more daring I wrote to you, brothers, in part, as reminding you, through the favor being given to me by God,
ROM 15:16 for me to be a minister of Jesus Christ to the nations, administering in sacred service the good news of God, that the offering of the nations should be well-received, having been sanctified in holy spirit.
ROM 15:17 I have then a boasting in Christ Jesus - the things about God.
ROM 15:18 For I dare not to speak anything which Christ did not manufacture through me for the obedience of the nations - by word and work,
ROM 15:19 in the power of signs and miracles, in the power of spirit of God; so as for me from Jerusalem and round about unto Illyricum to accomplish the good news of the Christ.
ROM 15:20 And so, striving earnestly to announce good news, where Christ was not named, that I should not build upon another's foundation;
ROM 15:21 but as it has been written, To the ones to whom it was not announced concerning him, they shall see; and the ones who have not heard, they shall perceive.
ROM 15:22 Therefore also I was hindered the many times to come to you.
ROM 15:23 But now no longer having a place in these regions, and having a longing to come to you for many years,
ROM 15:24 whenever I should go into Spain, I will come to you. For I hope traveling by to see you, and by you to be sent forward there, if I should first be filled up in part by you.
ROM 15:25 But now I go unto Jerusalem serving to the holy ones.
ROM 15:26 For Macedonia and Achaia think well to make a certain fellowship contribution unto the poor of the holy ones in Jerusalem.
ROM 15:27 For they take pleasure in it, and they are their debtors. For if to the nations they participated in their spiritual things, they ought also in the fleshly things minister to them.
ROM 15:28 This then completing, and having sealed to them this fruit, I will go forth by you into Spain.
ROM 15:29 And I know that coming to you, I shall come in fullness of blessing of the good news of the Christ.
ROM 15:30 But I appeal to you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ, and through the love of the spirit, to be companion at arms with me in the prayers for me to God;
ROM 15:31 that I should be rescued from the ones resisting persuasion among the Jews; and that my service for Jerusalem, should be well-received by the holy ones;
ROM 15:32 that in joy I should come to you by the will of God, that I should be refreshed together with you.
ROM 15:33 And the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
ROM 16:1 But I commend to you Phoebe our sister, being a servant of the assembly in Cenchrea;
ROM 16:2 that you should favorably receive her in the Lord, worthily of the holy ones, and you should stand beside her in what ever thing she should need of you. For also she was a patroness of many, and of me myself.
ROM 16:3 Greet Priscilla and Aquila my fellow-workers in Christ Jesus,
ROM 16:4 (who placed their own neck for my life. To whom not I only give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the nations;)
ROM 16:5 and the assembly at their house! Greet Epaenetus my beloved, who is a first-fruit of Achaia for Christ!
ROM 16:6 Greet Mary, who tired much for us!
ROM 16:7 Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives, and my fellow-captives, who are notable among the apostles, who also were before me in Christ!
ROM 16:8 Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord!
ROM 16:9 Greet Urbanus, our fellow-worker in Christ, and Stachys my beloved!
ROM 16:10 Greet Apelles the one approved in Christ! Greet the ones of the household of Aristobulus!
ROM 16:11 Greet Herodion my relative! Greet the ones of the ones of Narcissus being in the Lord!
ROM 16:12 Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, the ones tiring by labor in the Lord! Greet Persis the beloved, who by much labor tired in the Lord!
ROM 16:13 Greet Rufus the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine!
ROM 16:14 Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers with them!
ROM 16:15 Greet Philologus and Julias, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and the ones with them - all holy ones!
ROM 16:16 Greet one another with a holy kiss! The assemblies of Christ greet you.
ROM 16:17 And I appeal to you, brothers, to watch the ones making the discords and the obstacles by the teaching which you learned; and turn aside from them.
ROM 16:18 For the ones such serve not to our Lord Jesus Christ, but in their own belly; and by flattery and blessing they cheat the hearts of the guileless.
ROM 16:19 For the obedience of yours reached unto all. I rejoice then over you. But I want you to be wise ones indeed unto the good, but unmixed unto evil.
ROM 16:20 But the God of peace will destroy Satan under your feet quickly. The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
ROM 16:21 Timothy my fellow-worker greets you, and Luke, and Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
ROM 16:22 I Tertius greet you, the one writing the letter, in the Lord.
ROM 16:23 Gaius greets you, my host, and of the entire assembly. Erastus the manager of the city greets you, and Quartus the brother.
ROM 16:24 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
ROM 16:25 And to the one able to support you according to my good news, and the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to an uncovering of the mystery, in times eternal having been quiet,
ROM 16:26 but made apparent now, and through the prophetic scriptures, according to the command of the eternal God, for obedience of belief, having been made known unto all the nations -
ROM 16:27 the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory into the eons. Amen.
1CO 1:1 Paul, a chosen apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes the brother,
1CO 1:2 to the assembly of God being in Corinth, having been sanctified in Christ Jesus, chosen holy ones, with all the ones calling upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, both theirs and ours.
1CO 1:3 Favor to you, and peace from God our father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1CO 1:4 I give thanks to my God at all times for you, for the favor of God being given to you in Christ Jesus;
1CO 1:5 that in everything you were enriched in him, in all word and in all knowledge;
1CO 1:6 as the testimony of the Christ was firmed up in you;
1CO 1:7 so that you be not lacking in not one favor; awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ;
1CO 1:8 who also will firm up you unto the end, without reproach in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1CO 1:9 Trustworthy is God through whom you were called into a fellowship of his son Jesus Christ our Lord.
1CO 1:10 And I appeal to you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you should all say the same thing, and there should be no splits among you; but that you should be readying yourselves with the same mind, and with the same opinion.
1CO 1:11 For it was made manifest to me concerning you, my brothers, by the ones of Chloe, that there are strifes among you.
1CO 1:12 And I say this, that each of you says, I indeed am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
1CO 1:13 Has the Christ been portioned? Was Paul crucified for you? Or in the name of Paul were you immersed?
1CO 1:14 I give thanks to God that not one of you I immersed, except Crispus and Gaius;
1CO 1:15 that not any should say that in my name he was immersed.
1CO 1:16 And I immersed also the house of Stephanas. The rest I know not if any other I immersed.
1CO 1:17 For Christ did not send me to immerse, but to announce good news. Not in wisdom of word, lest the cross of the Christ should be an empty work.
1CO 1:18 For the word of the cross to the ones indeed perishing is moronishness; but to the ones being preserved, to us it is the power of God.
1CO 1:19 For it has been written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise ones; and the understanding of the experts I will disregard.
1CO 1:20 Where is the wise one? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this eon? Did not God make moronish the wisdom of this world?
1CO 1:21 For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, God thought well through the moronishness of the proclamation to deliver the ones believing.
1CO 1:22 Since both Jews ask for a sign, and Greeks seek by wisdom.
1CO 1:23 But we proclaim Christ being crucified, to Jews indeed an obstacle, and to Greeks moronishness;
1CO 1:24 but to these the chosen, both Jews and Greeks, Christ - God's power and God's wisdom.
1CO 1:25 For the moronish of God is wiser than the wisdom of men; and the weakness of God is stronger than the strength of men.
1CO 1:26 For you see your calling, brothers, that there are not many wise ones according to flesh, not many mighty, not many well-born.
1CO 1:27 But the moronish of the world God chose, that the wise ones should be disgraced; and the weak of the world God chose, that the strong should be disgraced;
1CO 1:28 and the ignoble of the world, and the ones being treated with contempt God chose; and the things not being, that the things being he should render useless.
1CO 1:29 So that all flesh should not boast before him.
1CO 1:30 But you are of him in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom to us from God, both righteousness, and sanctification, and release by ransom.
1CO 1:31 That, as it has been written, The one boasting, let him boast in the Lord!
1CO 2:1 And I having come to you, brothers, came not according to superiority of word or wisdom, announcing to you the testimony of God.
1CO 2:2 For I decided not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ, and this one being crucified.
1CO 2:3 And I in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling was with you.
1CO 2:4 And my word, and my proclaiming was not in persuasive human words of wisdom, but in a demonstration of spirit and power.
1CO 2:5 That the belief of yours should not be in wisdom of men, but in power of God.
1CO 2:6 But we speak wisdom among the ones completed; but wisdom not of this eon, nor of the rulers of this eon, of the ones being rendered useless.
1CO 2:7 But we speak wisdom of God in a mystery being concealed, which God predefined before the eons for our glory.
1CO 2:8 Which not one of the rulers of this eon has known. For if they knew, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
1CO 2:9 But as it has been written, That which eye saw not, and ear heard not, and into the heart of man ascended not, which God prepared to the ones loving him.
1CO 2:10 But to us God revealed by his spirit. For the spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God.
1CO 2:11 For who of men knows the things of the man, except the spirit of the man in him? So also the things of God no one knows, except the spirit of God.
1CO 2:12 But we received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit from God; that we should know the things being granted to us by God.
1CO 2:13 Which also we speak, not in words instructed by human wisdom, but by words instructed of holy spirit - spiritual things being interpreted in spiritual ways.
1CO 2:14 But the physical man does not receive the things of the spirit of God; for they are moronishness to him, and he is not able to know them, for they are examined spiritually.
1CO 2:15 But the spiritual one examines indeed all things, but he is examined by no one.
1CO 2:16 For who knew the mind of the Lord? Who instructs him? But we have the mind of Christ.
1CO 3:1 And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual ones, but as fleshly ones, as infants in Christ.
1CO 3:2 I gave you milk to drink, and not food; for not yet were you able, and neither yet now are you able.
1CO 3:3 For you are still fleshly ones. For where among you are jealousy, and strife, and discord; are you not fleshly ones, and walk according to man?
1CO 3:4 For whenever one should say, I indeed am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are you not fleshly ones?
1CO 3:5 Who then is Paul, and who Apollos, but only servants through whom you believed, and to each as the Lord gave?
1CO 3:6 I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave growth.
1CO 3:7 So that neither the one planting is anything, nor the one watering; but the one giving growth is God.
1CO 3:8 And the one planting and the one watering are one; and each shall receive his own wage according to his own toil.
1CO 3:9 For we are fellow-workers of God; of God's farm. You are God's construction.
1CO 3:10 According to the favor of God being given to me, as a wise architect, I set the foundation, and another builds. But let each take heed how he builds!
1CO 3:11 For another foundation no one is able to set except the one being laid, which is Jesus Christ.
1CO 3:12 And if anyone builds upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, stubble;
1CO 3:13 the work of each shall become apparent. For the day will manifest it, for by fire it is revealed; and of each work the fire shall prove what it is like.
1CO 3:14 If anyone's work abides which he built upon, he shall receive a wage.
1CO 3:15 If anyone's work shall be incinerated, he shall suffer loss. But he shall be delivered; but thus as through fire.
1CO 3:16 Know you not that you are a temple of God, and the spirit of God lives in you?
1CO 3:17 If anyone corrupts the temple of God, God shall corrupt this one; for the temple of God is holy, which you are.
1CO 3:18 Let no one cheat himself! If anyone thinks himself to be wise among you in this eon, let him become moronish, that he should become wise!
1CO 3:19 For the wisdom of this world is moronishness with God. For it has been written, He is the one grabbing the wise ones in their cleverness.
1CO 3:20 And again, The Lord knows the devices of the wise ones, that they are vain.
1CO 3:21 So that let no one boast among men! For all things are yours.
1CO 3:22 Whether Paul, whether Apollos, whether Cephas, whether the world, whether life, whether death, whether things present, whether things about to be - all are yours;
1CO 3:23 but you are of Christ, and Christ of God.
1CO 4:1 So let a man consider us as assistants of Christ, and managers of the mysteries of God!
1CO 4:2 But remaining, it is sought in the managers that one should be found trustworthy.
1CO 4:3 But to me it is a least thing that I should be examined by you, or by a human's day. But, not even myself do I examine.
1CO 4:4 For nothing by myself am I fully conscious; but not in this have I been justified. But the one examining me is the Lord.
1CO 4:5 So that judge not anything before its time! until whenever the Lord should come, who both will give light to the hidden things of the darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. And then the high praise shall be to each from God.
1CO 4:6 And these things, brothers, I changed appearance to myself and to Apollos on account of you; that in us you should learn not to think above what has been written, that not one over one you be inflated against the other.
1CO 4:7 For who scrutinizes you? and what do you have which you have not received? and if also you received, why do you boast, as not having received?
1CO 4:8 Are you already satisfied? are you already enriched? do you reign apart from us? And I ought indeed that you reigned, that also we with you should have reigned together.
1CO 4:9 For I think that God exhibited us apostles last, as condemned to death. For we became a theater to the world, and to angels, and to men.
1CO 4:10 We are moronish on account of Christ, but you are skilled in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are honorable, but we are without honor.
1CO 4:11 As far as the present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and unsettled;
1CO 4:12 and we tire working with our own hands. Being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure;
1CO 4:13 being blasphemed, we appeal; as the rubbish of the world, we were of all the sweepings until now.
1CO 4:14 Not shaming you do I write these things, but as my beloved children I admonish.
1CO 4:15 For if you should have ten thousand instructors in Christ, but not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus through the good news I engendered you.
1CO 4:16 I appeal to you then, become imitators of me!
1CO 4:17 On account of this I send to you Timothy, who is my beloved child, and trustworthy in the Lord, who shall remind you of my ways in Christ, as everywhere in every assembly I teach.
1CO 4:18 And as to my not coming to you, some were inflated.
1CO 4:19 But I shall come quickly to you, if the Lord should want, and I will know, not the word of the ones being inflated, but the power.
1CO 4:20 For not is the kingdom of God in word, but in power.
1CO 4:21 What do you want? Should I come with a rod to you, or in love and a spirit of gentleness?
1CO 5:1 Harlotry is wholly heard among you, and such harlotry which not even among the nations is named, so as for one to have his father's wife.
1CO 5:2 And you, are you being inflated, and not rather mourned, that the one having done this work should be removed from your midst.
1CO 5:3 For indeed I (as being absent in the body, but being at hand in the spirit,) already have judged as one being at hand, concerning the one thus manufacturing this,
1CO 5:4 in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, having brought together you and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1CO 5:5 to deliver up such to Satan for ruin of the flesh, that the spirit should be delivered in the day of the Lord Jesus.
1CO 5:6 Your boasting is not good. Know you not that a little yeast leavens the entire batch?
1CO 5:7 Clear out then the old yeast, that you should be a new batch - as you are unleavened breads! For indeed Christ our passover was sacrificed for us.
1CO 5:8 So that we should solemnize a holiday, not with old yeast, nor with yeast of evil and wickedness; but with unleavened breads of honesty and truth.
1CO 5:9 I wrote to you in the letter not to intermingle with fornicators.
1CO 5:10 But not assuredly with the fornicators of this world, or with the hoarders of wealth, or predacious, or idolaters; since you ought then to come forth from out of the world.
1CO 5:11 But now I wrote to you to not intermingle (if any brother being named, be a fornicator, or a hoarder of wealth, or an idolater, or a reviler, or an intoxicated person, or predacious) with the one such - nor to eat with.
1CO 5:12 For what is it to me and the ones outside to judge, shall you not judge the ones inside?
1CO 5:13 But the ones outside God judges. And you shall lift away the wicked one from you of them.
1CO 6:1 Dare any one of you, having a thing against the other, plead before the unjust, and not before the holy ones?
1CO 6:2 Know you not that the holy ones shall judge the world? And if by you the world is judged, are you unworthy of the judgment seat of the least?
1CO 6:3 Know you not that we shall judge angels? How much more indeed of the cares of life?
1CO 6:4 If you have then the judgment seat as to the cares of life of the ones being treated with contempt, then do you sit of these in the assembly?
1CO 6:5 To make you ashamed I speak. So is there not one among you being a wise one, nor one who is able to litigate between his brother?
1CO 6:6 But brother against brother goes to law, and this before unbelievers.
1CO 6:7 Already indeed then utterly there is failure among you, for you have lawsuits with yourselves. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be deprived?
1CO 6:8 But you do wrong, and deprive - and these things of brothers.
1CO 6:9 Or know you not that the unjust shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be misled. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor soft, nor homosexuals,
1CO 6:10 nor thieves, nor hoarders of wealth, nor intoxicated ones, not revilers, not predacious, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
1CO 6:11 And some of you were these. But you were washed off, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the spirit of our God.
1CO 6:12 All things to me are allowed, but not all advantageous. All things to me are allowed, but I shall not be brought under the authority by any.
1CO 6:13 The foods are for the belly, and the belly for the foods; but God will render useless both this body and these foods. But the body is not for harlotry, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body.
1CO 6:14 And God raised up also the Lord, and will awaken us through his power.
1CO 6:15 Know you not that your bodies are members of Christ? Having taken then the members of the Christ, shall I make them members of a harlot? May it not be.
1CO 6:16 Or, know you not that the one cleaving to the harlot, is one body? For he says the two shall be for one flesh.
1CO 6:17 But the one cleaving to the Lord is one spirit.
1CO 6:18 Flee harlotry! Every sin which ever a man should commit is outside of the body, but the one committing harlotry sins against his own body.
1CO 6:19 Or, know you not that your body is a temple of the holy spirit in you, which you have from God, and you are not your own?
1CO 6:20 For you were bought of value. Glorify God indeed in your body, and in your spirit, which is the one of God!
1CO 7:1 But concerning what you wrote to me. It is good for a man to not touch a woman.
1CO 7:2 But because of the harlotries, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband!
1CO 7:3 Let the husband render to the wife the good-will owed; and in like manner also the wife to the husband!
1CO 7:4 The wife does not exercise authority of her own body, but the husband. And in like manner also the husband does not exercise authority of his own body, but the wife.
1CO 7:5 Do not deprive one another, except for harmony's sake for a time, that you should relax in the fasting, and in the prayer! And again at the same time you should come together, that Satan should not test you because of your intemperance.
1CO 7:6 But this I say according to allowance, not according to command.
1CO 7:7 For I want all men to be as even myself. But each has his own favor from God - one so, and another so.
1CO 7:8 But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, it is good for them if they remain as even I.
1CO 7:9 But if they control not, let them marry! For it is better to marry than to be set on fire.
1CO 7:10 And to the ones being married I exhort, not I, but the Lord - a wife to not separate from a husband.
1CO 7:11 But if even she should separate, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to the husband! And a man's wife is not to be let go.
1CO 7:12 And to the rest I say, not the Lord. If any brother has an unbelieving wife, and she assents to live with him, he is not to leave her!
1CO 7:13 And a woman who has an unbelieving husband, and he assents to live with her, she is not to leave him!
1CO 7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Since then your children are unclean - but now are holy.
1CO 7:15 But if the unbeliever separates, let him be separated! The brother is not enslaved, or the sister in such cases. But in peace God has called us.
1CO 7:16 For what do you know, O wife, if you shall deliver the husband? Or what do you know, O husband, if you shall deliver the wife?
1CO 7:17 Except to each as God portioned - so let each walk as the Lord called! And so in all the assemblies I set an order.
1CO 7:18 Who is called while being circumcised, let him not become uncircumcised! Who is called in uncircumcision, let him not be circumcised!
1CO 7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandments of God is.
1CO 7:20 Each in the calling in which he was called - in this let him abide!
1CO 7:21 A slave being called - let it not be a care. But if even you are able to be free, rather use it!
1CO 7:22 For the slave being called in the Lord is the Lord's freedman. In like manner also the free one being called, is Christ's slave.
1CO 7:23 Of value you were bought; do not become slaves of men!
1CO 7:24 Each in which he was called, brothers, in this abide with God!
1CO 7:25 And concerning the virgins I do not have a command of the Lord. But an opinion I give as one being shown mercy by the Lord to be trustworthy.
1CO 7:26 I think then this existing is good because of the present necessity, that it is good for a man so to be.
1CO 7:27 Have you been tied to a wife, do not seek a loosening! Have you been untied from a wife, do not seek a wife!
1CO 7:28 But if also you should marry, you sinned not; and if the virgin should have married she sinned not. But affliction in the flesh such shall have. But I spare you.
1CO 7:29 But this I say, brothers, the remaining time is wrapping up, that also the ones having wives, should be as not having.
1CO 7:30 And the ones weeping, as not weeping; and the ones rejoicing, as not rejoicing; and the ones buying, as not holding possessions;
1CO 7:31 and the ones dealing in this world, as not abusing it. For the condition of this world passes by.
1CO 7:32 But I want you to be free from care. The unmarried is anxious for the things of the Lord, how he is pleasing to the Lord.
1CO 7:33 But the one married is anxious for the things of the world - how he pleases the wife.
1CO 7:34 The wife and the virgin are assigned a part even. The unmarried is anxious for the things of the Lord, that she might be holy, both in body and in spirit. But she having married is anxious for the things of the world, how she shall please the husband.
1CO 7:35 But this for your own advantage I speak, not that I should put a noose around you, but be undisturbed to the decent and well-occupied thing to the Lord.
1CO 7:36 But if anyone thinks to be disgraced over his virgin, if she should be advanced in years, and so it ought to be what he wants to do, he sins not - let them marry!
1CO 7:37 But the one who stands settled in the heart, not having necessity, but has authority concerning his own will, and this he has judged in his heart to give heed to his own virgin, well he does.
1CO 7:38 So that also the one giving in marriage does well; and the one not giving in marriage does better.
1CO 7:39 A wife is tied by law for as long a time as her husband lives; but if her husband should sleep, she is free to whom she wants to marry; only in the Lord.
1CO 7:40 But more blessed is she if so she should remain, according to my opinion. But I think I also have spirit of God.
1CO 8:1 And concerning the things sacrificed to idols - we know that we have all knowledge. Knowledge inflates, but love builds.
1CO 8:2 But if anyone thinks to know anything, nothing yet he knows as necessary to know.
1CO 8:3 But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him.
1CO 8:4 Concerning the food then of the ones sacrificing to idols - we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no other God except one.
1CO 8:5 For even if indeed there are ones being called gods, whether in heaven, whether upon the earth, (as there are many gods, and many lords,)
1CO 8:6 but to us there is one God - the father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and one Lord - Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we through him.
1CO 8:7 But knowledge is not in all. But some in the conscience of the idol, until just now, eat as of a thing sacrificed to idols; and their conscience being weak is tainted.
1CO 8:8 But a food does not stand us before God. For neither if we eat do we abound; nor if we do not eat do we lack.
1CO 8:9 But take heed, lest perhaps this your authority becomes an occasion for stumbling to the ones being weak!
1CO 8:10 For if any should behold you, the one having knowledge, reclining in the temple of an idol, shall not his conscience being weak be built up for eating the things sacrificed to idols?
1CO 8:11 And the brother being weak shall perish over your knowledge, for whom Christ died.
1CO 8:12 And thus sinning against the brothers, and striking their conscience which is weakened, you sin against Christ.
1CO 8:13 Therefore if a food causes my brother to stumble, in no way shall I eat meats into the eon, that I should not cause my brother to stumble.
1CO 9:1 Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
1CO 9:2 If to others I am not an apostle, but indeed I am to you; for you are the seal of my commission in the Lord.
1CO 9:3 My defense to the ones questioning me is this,
1CO 9:4 Do we not have authority to eat and to drink?
1CO 9:5 Do we not have authority to lead about a sister a wife, as also the rest of the apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas?
1CO 9:6 Or only I and Barnabas have not authority to not work?
1CO 9:7 Who soldiers by his own rations at any time? who plants a vineyard, and from the fruit of it does not eat? or who tends a flock, and from the milk of the flock does not eat?
1CO 9:8 Is it according to a man these things I speak? or does not also the law say these things?
1CO 9:9 For in the law of Moses it has been written, You shall not muzzle an ox threshing. Is not the ox a care to God?
1CO 9:10 Or because of us assuredly it says? For because of us it was written that, The one plowing ought to plow in hope, and the one threshing in hope is to partake of the thing of his hope.
1CO 9:11 If we sowed the spiritual things to you, is it a great thing if we harvest your fleshly things?
1CO 9:12 If others partake of the authority over you, should not we more? But we did not use this authority; but all things we hold off, that we should not give any hindrance to the good news of the Christ.
1CO 9:13 Know you not that the ones working at the temple shall eat the consecrated things? and the ones taking care of the altar receive a portion of the altar?
1CO 9:14 So also the Lord set in order to the ones announcing the good news, to live from the announcing of the good news.
1CO 9:15 But I used none of these things. But I wrote not these things, that thus it should happen with me. For it is good for me rather to die, than that anyone should nullify my boasting.
1CO 9:16 For if I announce good news, there is not a boasting to me; for a necessity is pressed upon me; but it is woe to me if I should not announce good news.
1CO 9:17 For if I willingly do this, I have a wage; but if unwillingly, I am entrusted with a management.
1CO 9:18 What then to me is the wage? That announcing good news freely I should establish the good news of the Christ, for the not abusing my authority in the good news.
1CO 9:19 For being free from all, I enslaved myself to all, that the many more I should gain.
1CO 9:20 And I became to the Jews as a Jew, that I should gain the Jews; to the ones under law, as myself under law, that the ones under law I should gain;
1CO 9:21 to the lawless ones, as a lawless one, (not being lawless to God, but lawful to Christ,) that I should gain the lawless ones.
1CO 9:22 I became to the weak as weak, that the weak I should gain. To all these I have become all things, that assuredly some I should deliver.
1CO 9:23 But this I do on account of the good news, that I should become a fellow-partaker with him.
1CO 9:24 Know you not that the ones running in the stadium, all indeed run, but one receives the victory prize? Thus you run that you should overtake!
1CO 9:25 But every athlete struggling, in all things controls himself; that indeed then that a corruptible crown they should receive; but we an incorruptible crown.
1CO 9:26 I therefore so run, as not uncertainly; so I box, as not flaying the air.
1CO 9:27 But I bruise my body, and bring it into slavery; lest to others having proclaimed, myself I should be debased.
1CO 10:1 But I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, but know that our fathers all were under the cloud, and all went through the sea;
1CO 10:2 and all unto Moses were immersed in the cloud and in the sea;
1CO 10:3 and all ate the same spiritual food;
1CO 10:4 and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from a spiritual rock following. And the rock was the Christ.
1CO 10:5 But not with the most of them did God think well of; for they were prostrated in the wilderness.
1CO 10:6 But these things became models for us, for us not to be cravers of evils, as those also were cravers.
1CO 10:7 Neither become idolaters, as some of them; as it has been written, The people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
1CO 10:8 Neither should we commit harlotry, as some of them committed harlotry, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day.
1CO 10:9 Neither should we put to test the Christ, as also some of them tested, and by the serpents perished.
1CO 10:10 Neither grumble, as also some of them grumbled, and perished by the annihilator!
1CO 10:11 And these things all came to pass to them as models. And they were written for our admonition, unto whom the ends of the eons are arrived.
1CO 10:12 So that the one thinking to stand take heed lest he should fall!
1CO 10:13 A test has not taken you except what belongs to a human. But God is trustworthy, who will not allow you to be tested above what you are able; but will make with the test also the result for you to be able to endure.
1CO 10:14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from the idolatry!
1CO 10:15 As practical I speak; you judge what I say!
1CO 10:16 The cup of the blessing which we bless, is it not fellowship of the blood of the Christ? The bread which we break, is it not fellowship of the body of the Christ?
1CO 10:17 For as one bread, we the many are one body; for we all partake of the one bread.
1CO 10:18 Look at Israel according to the flesh! Are not the ones eating the sacrifices partners of the altar?
1CO 10:19 What then say I? that an idol is anything, or that what is sacrificed to an idol is anything?
1CO 10:20 But that which the nations sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God. But I do not want you to become partners of the demons.
1CO 10:21 You are not able to drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. You are not able to partake of the table of the Lord, and the table of demons.
1CO 10:22 Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
1CO 10:23 All things to me are allowed, but not all things are advantageous. All things to me are allowed, but not all things build up.
1CO 10:24 Let no one seek of himself, but each the thing of the other.
1CO 10:25 Everything in the market place being sold eat of! questioning nothing on account of conscience.
1CO 10:26 For of the Lord is the earth, and the fullness of it.
1CO 10:27 And if anyone invite you of the unbelieving ones, and you want to go; all being placed near you eat of, questioning nothing on account of conscience!
1CO 10:28 But if anyone should say to you, This is sacrificed to idols, do not eat on account of that one indicating, and conscience sake! For of the Lord is the earth, and the fullness of it.
1CO 10:29 But conscience, I say, is not the one of yourself, but the one of the other. For why is my freedom judged by another's conscience?
1CO 10:30 If I partake in favor, why am I blasphemed for what I give thanks?
1CO 10:31 Whether then you eat, or whether you drink, or whether anything you do, do all unto the glory of God!
1CO 10:32 Become not a cause for stumbling - even to Jews, even to Greeks, even to the assembly of God!
1CO 10:33 as even I please all men in all things, not seeking for myself advantage, but the advantage for the many, that they should be delivered.
1CO 11:1 Become mimics of me, as even I of Christ!
1CO 11:2 But I praise you, brothers, that in all things you have remembrance of me, and hold the traditions as I delivered to you.
1CO 11:3 But I want you to know, that the Christ is the head of every man; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
1CO 11:4 Every man praying or prophesying, having anything on his head, disgraces his own head.
1CO 11:5 And every woman praying or prophesying with uncovered head, disgraces her own head; for it is one and the same as having been shaven.
1CO 11:6 For if a woman be not covered up, also let her be shorn! But if it be shameful for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered up!
1CO 11:7 For indeed a man ought not to be covered of the head, being an image and glory of God. But a woman is glory of man.
1CO 11:8 For not is man of the woman, but the woman of man.
1CO 11:9 For man was not created on account of the woman, but the woman on account of the man.
1CO 11:10 Because of this the woman ought to have the authority upon her head on account of the angels.
1CO 11:11 Furthermore neither is man separate from woman, nor woman separate from man in the Lord.
1CO 11:12 For as the woman is from out of the man, so also the man is through the woman; but all things are from out of God.
1CO 11:13 Among you yourselves judge! Is it becoming for an uncovered woman to pray to God?
1CO 11:14 Or does not even nature itself teach you that a man indeed if he should have long hair, it is a dishonor to him?
1CO 11:15 But a woman, if she should have long hair is it a glory to her; for the hair of the head instead of a wrap is given to her.
1CO 11:16 But if anyone thinks to be contentious, we do not have such a custom, nor the assemblies of God.
1CO 11:17 But in this exhorting I do not praise you, for you do not come together for the better but for the worse.
1CO 11:18 For indeed first in your coming together in assembly, I hear of splits existing among you, and partly I believe it.
1CO 11:19 For must sects even be among you, that the ones approved should become apparent among you?
1CO 11:20 In your coming together then in the same place, is it not to eat the Lord's supper?
1CO 11:21 But each first takes his own supper in the eating, and one hungers, and another is intoxicated.
1CO 11:22 For do you not have houses for the eating and drinking? Or do you disdain the assembly of God, and disgrace the ones not having? What should I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise.
1CO 11:23 For I received from the Lord what also I delivered up to you, that the Lord Jesus, in the night in which he was delivered up took bread.
1CO 11:24 And having given thanks, he broke it, and said, Take, eat! This is my body, being broken for you. This do in my remembrance!
1CO 11:25 Likewise also the cup, after having supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you should drink in my remembrance!
1CO 11:26 For as often as you should eat this bread, and should drink this cup, the death of the Lord you announce until of which ever time he should come.
1CO 11:27 So that who ever should eat this bread or should drink the cup of the Lord unworthily will be liable of the body and blood of the Lord.
1CO 11:28 But let a man prove himself, and thus let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup!
1CO 11:29 For the one eating and drinking unworthily, eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discriminating the body of the Lord.
1CO 11:30 Because of this many among you are weak and ill, and a fit amount gone to sleep.
1CO 11:31 For if we examine ourselves we should not be judged.
1CO 11:32 But being judged by the Lord we are corrected, that we should not be condemned with the world.
1CO 11:33 So that, my brothers, coming together for the eating, let us look out for one another!
1CO 11:34 But if anyone hungers, let him eat in his house, that you should not come together for judgment! And the rest whenever I should come I shall set in order.
1CO 12:1 But concerning the spirituals, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.
1CO 12:2 You know that when you were nations, being led away to the voiceless idols even as you were led.
1CO 12:3 Therefore I make known to you, that no one speaking in spirit of God says, Jesus is anathema; and no one is able to say, Lord Jesus, except by holy spirit.
1CO 12:4 But there are divisions of favors, but the same spirit.
1CO 12:5 And there are divisions of services, and the same Lord.
1CO 12:6 And there are divisions of operations, but it is the same God operating all things in all.
1CO 12:7 And to each is given the open display of the spirit for advantage.
1CO 12:8 For indeed one through the spirit is given word of wisdom; and to another word of knowledge, according to the same spirit;
1CO 12:9 and to another belief, in the same spirit; and to another favors of cures, in the same spirit;
1CO 12:10 and to another operations of powers; and to another prophecy; and to another distinction of spirits; and to another types of languages; and to another translation of languages.
1CO 12:11 But all these operate by the one and the same spirit, dividing privately to each as he wills.
1CO 12:12 For just as the body is one, and has many members, but all the members of the one body, being many, are one body; so also the Christ.
1CO 12:13 For also in one spirit we all in one body were immersed, whether Jews, whether Greeks, whether slaves, whether free; and all into one spirit given to drink.
1CO 12:14 For also the body is not one member, but many.
1CO 12:15 If the foot should say that, I am not a hand, I am not of the body; it is not because of this it is not of the body?
1CO 12:16 And if the ear should say that, I am not an eye, I am not of the body; it is not because of this it is not of the body?
1CO 12:17 If all the body was an eye, where would be the hearing? If all was hearing, where would be the smelling?
1CO 12:18 But now God made the members, each one of them in the body, as he wanted.
1CO 12:19 But if it was all one member, where the body?
1CO 12:20 But now there are many members indeed, but one body.
1CO 12:21 And the eye is not able to say to the hand, I have not a need of you; or again the head to the feet, I have not a need of you.
1CO 12:22 But more rather, the members of the body which seem to be weaker are important;
1CO 12:23 and the ones which seem to be exceedingly without honor of the body, these we invest more extra honor; and our indecent parts have more extra decency;
1CO 12:24 but our decent parts have not a need. But God mixed together the body to the part lacking, having given it more extra honor,
1CO 12:25 that there might not be a split in the body; but that the members should have the same concern for one another.
1CO 12:26 And whether one member suffers, all the members suffer along; whether one member be glorified, all the members rejoice along.
1CO 12:27 But you are the body of Christ, and members in turn.
1CO 12:28 And whom indeed God appointed in the assembly, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, thereupon works of power, then favors of cures, assistance, guidance, types of languages.
1CO 12:29 Not all are apostles. Not all are prophets. Not all are teachers. Not all are works of power.
1CO 12:30 Not all have favors of cures. Not all speak languages. Not all interpret.
1CO 12:31 But be zealous for the better favors. And yet I will show to you a way that exceeds.
1CO 13:1 If I speak the languages of men and of the angels, but I have not love, I have become brass resounding, or a cymbal sounding loudly.
1CO 13:2 And if I have prophecy, and I know the mysteries - all, and all knowledge; and if I have all belief, so as to remove mountains, but I have not love, I am nothing.
1CO 13:3 And if I should distribute all my possessions, and if I should deliver up my body that it should be burned, but I have not love, not one benefit do I derive.
1CO 13:4 Love is lenient, is kind; love is not jealous, love is not rash, not inflated,
1CO 13:5 not indecent, does not seek the things for itself, is not provoked, does not consider the bad;
1CO 13:6 does not rejoice at injustice, but rejoices with the truth;
1CO 13:7 all things it sustains, all things it trusts, all things it hopes, all things it endures.
1CO 13:8 Love at no time falls off. But whether prophecies, they shall cease work; whether languages, they shall cease; whether knowledge, it shall cease work.
1CO 13:9 But in part we know, and in part we prophesy.
1CO 13:10 But whenever the perfect should come, then the thing in part shall cease work.
1CO 13:11 When I was an infant, I spoke as an infant, I thought as an infant, I considered as an infant. But when I became a man, I ceased in the things of the infant.
1CO 13:12 For we see now by a mirror in an enigma; but then face to face. Now I know in part; but then I shall recognize as also I was recognized.
1CO 13:13 But now abide belief, hope, love, these three; but greater of these is love.
1CO 14:1 Pursue love, and be zealous for the spirituals! but more that you should prophesy.
1CO 14:2 For the one speaking a language speaks not to men, but to God. For no one hears him, but in spirit he speaks mysteries.
1CO 14:3 But the one prophesying speaks to men for edifying, and comfort, and consolation.
1CO 14:4 The one speaking a language edifies himself; but the one prophesying edifies the assembly.
1CO 14:5 But I want you all to speak languages, but more that you prophesy. For greater is the one prophesying than the one speaking languages, outside of unless he interprets, that the assembly should receive edification.
1CO 14:6 And now, brothers, if I should come to you speaking languages, what shall I benefit you, unless I shall speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in teaching?
1CO 14:7 Even the lifeless things giving a sound, whether pipe, whether harp, if they should not give a distinction to the tones, how shall the thing piped be known, or the thing being harped?
1CO 14:8 For also if a trumpet should give a concealed sound, who shall make preparations for battle?
1CO 14:9 So also you through the tongue, if you should not give a well-marked word, how shall the thing being spoken be known? for you will be speaking into air.
1CO 14:10 Since there are so many kinds of sounds by chance in the world, and none of them voiceless;
1CO 14:11 if then I do not know the ability of the sound, I will be to the one speaking a barbarian, and the one speaking with me a barbarian.
1CO 14:12 So also you, when you are zealous of spirits, seek that you should abound for the edification of the assembly!
1CO 14:13 Therefore let the one speaking a language pray that he should interpret!
1CO 14:14 For if I should pray in a language, my spirit prays, but my intellect is unfruitful.
1CO 14:15 What then is it? I will pray with the spirit, but I will pray also with the intellect. I will strum praise with the spirit, but I will strum praise also with the intellect.
1CO 14:16 Since if you should bless with the spirit, the one filling the place of the common person, how shall he say the Amen at your thanksgiving, since what you say he knows not?
1CO 14:17 For you indeed well give thanks, but the other is not edified.
1CO 14:18 I give thanks to my God, speaking languages more than all of you.
1CO 14:19 But in the assembly I want to speak five words through my intellect, that also others I should instruct, rather than ten thousand words in a language.
1CO 14:20 Brothers, be not children in the senses; but in evil act like infants, but in the senses become complete!
1CO 14:21 In the law it has been written that, In other languages, and by other lips I shall speak to this people; and neither thus shall they listen to me, says the Lord.
1CO 14:22 So that the languages are for a sign, not to the ones believing, but to the unbelievers. And prophecy is not to the unbelievers, but to the ones believing.
1CO 14:23 If then the entire assembly should come together in one place, and all speak languages, and there should enter common people or unbelievers, shall they not say that you are maniacal?
1CO 14:24 And if all prophesy, and there should enter some unbeliever, or common person, he is reproved by all, he is examined by all.
1CO 14:25 And thus the hidden things of his heart become open; and thus falling upon his face he does obeisance to God, reporting that God really is among you.
1CO 14:26 What then is it, brothers? Whenever you should come together, each of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a language, has a revelation, has a translation. Let all things be for edification!
1CO 14:27 Whether anyone speaks a language, let it be two, or the most three, and by turn; and let one interpret!
1CO 14:28 And if there should not be an interpreter, let him be quiet in the assembly; and let him speak to himself, and to God!
1CO 14:29 And prophets - let two or three speak, and the others scrutinize!
1CO 14:30 But if it should be revealed to another sitting by, let the first be quiet!
1CO 14:31 For you are able one by one all to prophesy, that all should learn, and all should be comforted.
1CO 14:32 For spirits of prophets submit to prophets.
1CO 14:33 For he is not the God of commotion, but peace, as in all the assemblies of the holy ones.
1CO 14:34 Let your wives in the assemblies be quiet, for not is it committed to their care to speak! But let them be submitted! as also the law says.
1CO 14:35 But if any shall want to learn, let them ask their own husbands in the house. For it is shameful for wives to speak in assembly.
1CO 14:36 Or, came forth from you the word of God? or to you alone it arrived?
1CO 14:37 If any thinks to be a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize what I write to you! that they are commandments of the Lord.
1CO 14:38 But if any be ignorant, let him be ignorant!
1CO 14:39 So that, brothers, be jealous to prophesy! and to speak languages be not restrained!
1CO 14:40 All things decently and according to order let be!
1CO 15:1 But I make known to you, brothers, the good news which I announced as good news to you, which also you received, in which also you stand;
1CO 15:2 through which also you are being delivered, if you take control what word I announced as good news to you - outside of unless in vain you believed.
1CO 15:3 For I delivered up to you at first that which also I received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures;
1CO 15:4 and that he was entombed, and that he was raised in the third day according to the scriptures;
1CO 15:5 and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
1CO 15:6 Thereupon, he appeared to above five hundred brothers at once; of whom the most remain until now, but some also are fallen asleep.
1CO 15:7 Thereupon he appeared to James; then to all the apostles.
1CO 15:8 And last of all, just as if to a miscarriage, he appeared also to me.
1CO 15:9 For I am the least of the apostles, whom I am not fit to be called an apostle, for I persecuted the assembly of God.
1CO 15:10 But by favor of God I am what I am. And his favor which was towards me has not become empty; but more extra than them all I tire in labor. But not I, but the favor of God with me.
1CO 15:11 Whether then I, or whether they, so we proclaim, and so you believed.
1CO 15:12 And if Christ is proclaimed that he has been raised from the dead, how say some among you that there is not a resurrection of the dead?
1CO 15:13 And if there is not a resurrection of the dead, not even Christ has been raised.
1CO 15:14 And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is empty, and empty also is the belief of yours.
1CO 15:15 And we are found even as false witnesses of God; for we witnessed concerning God that he raised the Christ. Whom he raised not, if indeed it is so the dead are not raised.
1CO 15:16 For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised.
1CO 15:17 And if Christ has not been raised, the belief of yours is in vain; you are still in your sins.
1CO 15:18 And then the ones having been fallen asleep in Christ perished.
1CO 15:19 If in this life only we are hoping in Christ, more pitiable than all men are we.
1CO 15:20 But now Christ has been raised from the dead - he became first-fruit of the ones sleeping.
1CO 15:21 For since through man death came, then through man came the resurrection of the dead.
1CO 15:22 For as all shall die in Adam, so also in the Christ all shall be restored to life.
1CO 15:23 But each in his own order. The first-fruit is Christ; thereupon the ones of the Christ at his arrival.
1CO 15:24 Then the end, whenever he should have delivered up the kingdom to the God and father; whenever he should clear away all rule and all authority and power.
1CO 15:25 For it is necessary for him to reign until of which ever he should have put all the enemies under his feet.
1CO 15:26 The last enemy cleared away is death.
1CO 15:27 For all things he subjected under his feet. But whenever it should say that all things have been subjected, it is manifest that it is outside of the one subjecting to him all things.
1CO 15:28 And whenever all the things should be subjected to him, then also he himself, the son, shall be subjected to the one having subjected to him all the things, that God should be the all in all.
1CO 15:29 Since what shall the ones being immersed for the dead do if wholly the dead are not raised? why also are they immersed for the dead?
1CO 15:30 Why also are we exposed to danger every hour?
1CO 15:31 Daily I die by your boasting, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
1CO 15:32 If according to man I fought with wild beasts in Ephesus, what benefit is it to me if the dead are not raised? We should eat and drink; for tomorrow we die?
1CO 15:33 Be not misled - evil companionships corrupt gracious morals.
1CO 15:34 Sober up righteously, and do not sin! for some have an ignorance of God - to your shame I speak.
1CO 15:35 But someone will say, How are the dead raised? and with what kind of body do they come?
1CO 15:36 Foolish one, what you sow is not restored to life unless it should die.
1CO 15:37 And what you sowed is not the body coming to pass which you sowed, but is a bare kernel - if by chance grain or some of the rest.
1CO 15:38 And God gives to it a body as he wants, and to each of the seeds its own body.
1CO 15:39 Not every flesh is the same flesh. But indeed other flesh is of men, and another flesh of cattle, and another of fishes, and another of birds,
1CO 15:40 and heavenly bodies, and earthly bodies. But another indeed is the glory of the heavenlies, and another is the ones of the earthly.
1CO 15:41 Another glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star from star differs in glory.
1CO 15:42 So also the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruptibility.
1CO 15:43 It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power.
1CO 15:44 It is sown a physical body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a physical body, and there is a spiritual body.
1CO 15:45 So also it has been written, The first man Adam became a living soul; the last Adam into a spirit being restored to life.
1CO 15:46 But the spiritual was not first, but the physical; thereupon the spiritual.
1CO 15:47 The first man was from out of the earth, of dust; the second man, the Lord of heaven.
1CO 15:48 Such as the one of dust, such also the ones of dust. And such as the heavenly one, such also the heavenly ones.
1CO 15:49 And as we wore the image of dust, we shall wear also the image of the heavenly.
1CO 15:50 But this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood is not able to inherit the kingdom of God, nor can corruption inherit incorruptibility.
1CO 15:51 Behold, I speak a mystery to you; we shall not all indeed sleep, but all shall be changed,
1CO 15:52 in an instant, in the blink of an eye, at the last trumpet. For it shall trump, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.
1CO 15:53 For it is necessary this corruption to put on incorruptibility, and this mortal to put on immortality.
1CO 15:54 But whenever this corruptible should have put on incorruptibility, and this mortal should have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the word having been written, Death was swallowed down in victory.
1CO 15:55 Where is your sting O death? Where is your victory O Hades?
1CO 15:56 And the sting of death is sin; and the power of sin is the law.
1CO 15:57 But to God be favor, to the one giving to us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1CO 15:58 So that, my beloved brothers, be settled, immovable, abounding in the work of the Lord at all times, knowing that your toil is not in vain in the Lord!
1CO 16:1 But concerning the collection for the holy ones, as I set in order to the assemblies of Galatia, so also you do!
1CO 16:2 According to one of the sabbaths each of you by yourself put in! treasuring up what ever way he should be prospered in; that not whenever I come then the collections should take place.
1CO 16:3 And whenever I should come, whom ever you should approve through letters, these I will send forth to carry away your favor unto Jerusalem.
1CO 16:4 And if it should be worth for me also to go, they shall go with me.
1CO 16:5 And I will come to you whenever I shall have gone through Macedonia; for Macedonia I do go through.
1CO 16:6 And with you by chance I shall remain, or even pass the winter, that you should send me forward of which ever place I should go.
1CO 16:7 For I do not want just now to see you in passing; but I hope for some time to remain with you, if the Lord commits it to my care.
1CO 16:8 But I shall remain in Ephesus until Pentecost.
1CO 16:9 For a door opens to me great and active, and the ones acting as adversaries are many.
1CO 16:10 And if Timothy should come, see that fearlessly he should be with you! for the work of the Lord he works, as also I.
1CO 16:11 Not anyone then should treat him with contempt, but forward him in peace, that he should come to me - for I look out for him with the brothers!
1CO 16:12 And concerning Apollos the brother, much I appealed to him, that he should come to you with the brothers; and assuredly it was not his will that now he should come; but he will come whenever he should have an opportune time.
1CO 16:13 Be vigilant! Stand firmly in the belief! Be manly! Be fortified!
1CO 16:14 Let all of you be in love!
1CO 16:15 But I appeal to you, brothers, (you know the house of Stephanas, that it is first-fruit of Achaia, and they arranged themselves for service to the holy ones,)
1CO 16:16 that also you should submit to such, and to all working together and tiring in labor.
1CO 16:17 And I rejoice over the arrival of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for the deficiency of yours these supplied.
1CO 16:18 For they rested my spirit and the one of yours. Recognize then such!
1CO 16:19 The assemblies of Asia greet you! Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, with the assembly in their house.
1CO 16:20 All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss!
1CO 16:21 The greeting by my hand, Paul.
1CO 16:22 If anyone is not fond of the Lord Jesus Christ, be anathema! Maranatha.
1CO 16:23 The favor of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
1CO 16:24 My love is with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2CO 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through the will of God, and Timothy the brother, to the assembly of God being in Corinth, with all the holy ones being in all Achaia.
2CO 1:2 Favor to you and peace from God our father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2CO 1:3 Blessed be the God and father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the father of compassions, and God of all comfort;
2CO 1:4 the one comforting us in all our affliction, for the enabling us to comfort the ones in every affliction, through the consolation of which we are comforted in ourselves by God.
2CO 1:5 For as the sufferings of the Christ abound in us, so through Christ our comfort also abounds.
2CO 1:6 But whether we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and deliverance, being energized in the endurance of the same sufferings which also we suffer,
2CO 1:7 (and our hope is firm for you;) or whether we are comforted, it is for your comfort and deliverance; knowing that as you are partners of the sufferings, so also of the comfort.
2CO 1:8 For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, over our affliction happening to us in Asia, that we were weighed down in excess, beyond power, so as for us to be destitute even of living.
2CO 1:9 But we have had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not be relying upon ourselves, but upon God, the one raising the dead.
2CO 1:10 Who from out of such a death rescued us, and does rescue; in whom we have hope that also still he shall rescue;
2CO 1:11 working along with you also for us by supplication, that by many persons the favor to us should be for giving thanks through many for you.
2CO 1:12 For this is our boasting - the testimony of our conscience, that in singleness and honesty of God, (not in fleshy wisdom, but by favor of God,) we behaved in the world, and more exceedingly to you.
2CO 1:13 For not another thing do we write to you, other than what you read or also recognize; and I hope that even until the end you will recognize;
2CO 1:14 as also you recognized us in part, that we are your boasting, just as also you are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus.
2CO 1:15 And in this reliance I was wanting to come to you prior, that a second favor you should have;
2CO 1:16 and by you to go through into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you, and by you to be sent forward into Judea.
2CO 1:17 This then planning, lest anything did I treat it in lightness? or what I planned, did I plan according to the flesh, that there might be by me the yes, Yes, and the no, No?
2CO 1:18 But trustworthy is God, that our word to you became not, Yes and No.
2CO 1:19 For the son of God, Jesus Christ, the one among you being proclaimed by us, (by me and Silvanus and Timothy,) was not Yes and No, but, Yes became in him.
2CO 1:20 For as many promises of God there are, in him is the yes, and in him the Amen, to God for glory by us.
2CO 1:21 But the one firming us with you unto Christ, and having anointed us, is God;
2CO 1:22 even the one setting a seal upon us, and having given the deposit of the spirit in our hearts.
2CO 1:23 And I call upon God as witness upon my soul, that sparing you no longer came I to Corinth.
2CO 1:24 Not that we dominate the belief of yours, but are fellow-workers of your joy - for in the belief you stand.
2CO 2:1 But I decided in myself this, not again to come in distress to you.
2CO 2:2 For if I grieve you, then who is the one gladdening me, unless it be the one being grieved by me?
2CO 2:3 And I wrote to you this same thing, lest, having come I should have distress from whom it behooved me to rejoice over; relying upon you all, that my joy is all of you.
2CO 2:4 For out of much affliction and conflict of heart I wrote to you through many tears; not that you should be grieved, but that you should know the love which I have more exceedingly towards you.
2CO 2:5 But if any has grieved, he has not grieved me, but in part; that I should not overburden you all.
2CO 2:6 This reproach by the many is enough to such a one.
2CO 2:7 So that on the other hand rather you are to grant favor and to comfort him, lest the more extra distress should swallow down such a one.
2CO 2:8 Therefore I appeal to you to validate love unto him.
2CO 2:9 For unto this also I wrote, that I should know your proof, if in everything you are subjects.
2CO 2:10 But to whom you grant favor in anything, so also I. For also I, if anything have granted favor, to whom I have granted favor, it is for your sake in the person of Christ;
2CO 2:11 that we should not be taken advantage of by Satan. For we are not ignorant of his thoughts.
2CO 2:12 Now, having come unto Troas for the good news of the Christ, even a door was opened to me in the Lord.
2CO 2:13 I did not have relaxation in my spirit at my not finding Titus my brother. But being sent off by them, I went forth into Macedonia.
2CO 2:14 But to God be favor at all times, causing us to triumph in the Christ, and making manifest the scent of the knowledge of him through us in every place.
2CO 2:15 For of Christ we are a pleasant aroma offering to God, among the ones being delivered, and among the ones perishing.
2CO 2:16 To some, a scent of death to death; but to some a scent of life to life. And for these things who is fit?
2CO 2:17 For not are we as the rest, peddling the word of God. But as from honesty, but as of God, before God in Christ we speak.
2CO 3:1 Do we begin again to commend ourselves? unless we need, as some, of introductory letters to you, or introductory letters from you?
2CO 3:2 You are our letter being written in our hearts, being known and being read by all men;
2CO 3:3 being manifested that you are Christ's letter served by us, having been written not with ink, but by spirit of the living God; not on tablets of stones, but on fleshly tablets of the heart.
2CO 3:4 And such reliance we have through the Christ towards God.
2CO 3:5 Not that we are fit of ourselves to consider anything as from out of ourselves; but our fitness is of God;
2CO 3:6 who also made us fit servants of a new covenant; not of contract, but of spirit. For the contract kills, but the spirit restores to life.
2CO 3:7 And if the service of death in contracts having been impressed in stones, happened for glory, so as for the sons of Israel to not be able to gaze into the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, the glory being cleared away;
2CO 3:8 how not more the service of the spirit will be in glory?
2CO 3:9 For if the service of condemnation be glory, much rather abounds the service of righteousness in glory.
2CO 3:10 For also not even the thing having been glorified has been glorified in this part, on account of the exceeding glory.
2CO 3:11 For if the thing being cleared away was through glory, much rather the thing which remains is in glory.
2CO 3:12 Having then such hope, we deal in much confidence.
2CO 3:13 And not as Moses put a covering upon the face of himself, for the thing of the sons of Israel to not gaze unto the end of the thing being cleared away.
2CO 3:14 But their thoughts were calloused. For as far as today the same covering remains upon the reading of the old covenant, not uncovered, which in Christ is being cleared away.
2CO 3:15 But unto today, when Moses is read, a covering lies upon their heart.
2CO 3:16 But when ever it should turn towards the Lord, the covering is being removed.
2CO 3:17 And the Lord is the spirit. But where the spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
2CO 3:18 But we all with uncovered face are reflecting the glory of the Lord, the same image being transformed from glory unto glory, just as from the Lord of spirit.
2CO 4:1 Therefore, having this service, as we were shown mercy, we tire not.
2CO 4:2 But we forbade the hidden things of shame, not walking in cleverness, nor acting treacherously in the word of God; but by open display of the truth commending ourselves to every conscience of men before God.
2CO 4:3 But if even our good news is being covered, it is covered among the ones perishing.
2CO 4:4 In whom the god of this eon blinded the thoughts of the unbelieving, so as to not shine forth to them the illumination of the good news of the glory of the Christ, who is the image of the unseen of God.
2CO 4:5 For we do not proclaim ourselves, but Christ Jesus - Lord; and ourselves your bondmen for the sake of Jesus.
2CO 4:6 For God is the one having told light to radiate from darkness, who radiated in our hearts, for the illumination of the knowledge of the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ.
2CO 4:7 But we have this treasure in earthenware vessels, that the excess of the power might be of God, and not of us.
2CO 4:8 We are in every way afflicted, but not having been restricted; perplexed, but not left destitute;
2CO 4:9 persecuted, but not abandoned; thrown down, but not destroyed;
2CO 4:10 at all times the slaying of the Lord Jesus in the body carrying round about, that also the life of Jesus in our body should be manifested.
2CO 4:11 For continually, we the living, are delivered up unto death on account of Jesus, that also the life of Jesus should be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2CO 4:12 So that indeed, death operates in us, but life in you.
2CO 4:13 And having the same spirit of the belief, according to the thing having been written, I believed, therefore I spoke; we also believe, therefore we also speak.
2CO 4:14 Knowing that the one having raised the Lord Jesus, also shall raise us through Jesus, and shall stand beside with you.
2CO 4:15 For all things are on account of you, that the favor superabounding through the many should cause thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God.
2CO 4:16 Therefore we tire not; but even if our outer man be corrupted, yet the inner man is restored day by day.
2CO 4:17 For the immediate lightness of our affliction, manufactures according to excess to excess an eternal load of glory to us;
2CO 4:18 of our not watching the things being seen, but the things not being seen; for the things being seen are temporary; but the things not being seen are eternal.
2CO 5:1 For we know that if our earthly house of the tent be rested up, we have a construction from God, a house not made by hands, eternal in the heavens.
2CO 5:2 For also in this we moan, longing to put on our dwelling-place of heaven;
2CO 5:3 if indeed also being clothed, we shall not be found naked.
2CO 5:4 For also we the ones being in the tent moan, being weighed down; since we do not want to be stripped, but to put on, that the mortal should be swallowed down by the life.
2CO 5:5 And the one manufacturing us for this same thing is God, the one also having given to us the deposit of the spirit.
2CO 5:6 Taking courage then at all times, and knowing that, while dwelling at home in the body, we are abroad from the Lord.
2CO 5:7 For we walk by belief, not by sight.
2CO 5:8 And we take courage, and take pleasure rather to be abroad from the body, and to dwell at home with the Lord.
2CO 5:9 Therefore also we strive earnestly, whether dwelling at home or whether being abroad, to be well-pleasing to him.
2CO 5:10 For all the ones of us must be manifested before the rostrum of the Christ; that each should receive the things of the body, as to what he practiced, whether good or whether bad.
2CO 5:11 Knowing then the fear of the Lord, we persuade men; but to God we have been made apparent; and I hope also in your consciences we have been made apparent.
2CO 5:12 For we do not commend ourselves again to you, but are giving you opportunity for boasting over us, that you should have something against the ones boasting in appearance, and not in heart.
2CO 5:13 For whether we were startled, it was to God. Or whether we were of a sound mind, it is for you.
2CO 5:14 For the love of the Christ constrains us; having adjudged this, that if one died for all, then all died;
2CO 5:15 and that he died for all, that the ones living no longer should live to themselves, but to the one having died for them and arising.
2CO 5:16 So that we from the present know nothing according to the flesh. And if also we have known Christ according to the flesh, but now no longer do we know him thus.
2CO 5:17 So that if anyone be in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things passed away; behold, all things have become new.
2CO 5:18 And all things are of God, of the reconciling us to himself through Jesus Christ, and having given to us the service of the reconciliation;
2CO 5:19 how that, God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not imputing to them their transgressions; and having put in us the word of the reconciliation.
2CO 5:20 For of Christ then we are ambassadors, as of God appealing through us; we beseech for Christ - be reconciled to God!
2CO 5:21 For the one not knowing sin, he made a sin offering for us; that we should be righteousness of God in him.
2CO 6:1 And working together also we appeal for you to not receive the favor of God in vain,
2CO 6:2 (for he says, In an accepted time I heeded you, and in the day of deliverance I helped you. Behold, now is a well-received time; behold, now is the day of deliverance;)
2CO 6:3 in no way giving a cause for stumbling in anything, that the service should not be scoffed at.
2CO 6:4 But in everything commending ourselves as God's servants, in much endurance, in afflictions, in necessities, in straits,
2CO 6:5 in strokes, in imprisonments, in commotions, in toils, in sleeplessnesses, in fastings,
2CO 6:6 in purity, in knowledge, in leniency, in graciousness, in holy spirit, in unpretentious love,
2CO 6:7 in the word of truth, in power of God, through the weapons of righteousness of the right and left,
2CO 6:8 through glory and dishonor, through evil report and good report; as deluded, and yet true;
2CO 6:9 as being not known, and yet being recognized; as dying, and behold, we live; as ones being corrected, and not being put to death;
2CO 6:10 as grieving, but continually rejoicing; as poor, but enriching many; as having nothing, and holding all things.
2CO 6:11 Our mouth has been opened to you, O Corinthians; our heart widened.
2CO 6:12 You have not been restricted by us, but in your feelings of compassion you have been restricted.
2CO 6:13 But the same compensation, (as to children I speak,) you be widened also.
2CO 6:14 Do not become yoked with a different kind - unbelievers. For what sharing is righteousness and lawlessness? And what fellowship light with darkness?
2CO 6:15 And what harmony Christ with Belial? Or what portion believing with unbelieving?
2CO 6:16 And what accord a temple of God with idols? for you are a temple of the living God; as God said that, I will dwell among them, and I will walk about; and I will be their God, and they will be to me a people.
2CO 6:17 Therefore come forth from out of the midst of them, and be separated, says the Lord, and touch not the unclean! and I will take you in.
2CO 6:18 And I will be to you for father, and you shall be to me for sons and daughters, says the Lord almighty.
2CO 7:1 Having then these promises, beloved, we should cleanse ourselves from all contamination of the flesh and spirit, completing holiness in fear of God.
2CO 7:2 Have space for us; no one we wronged, no one we corrupted, no one we took advantage of.
2CO 7:3 I speak not for condemnation. For I have described beforehand that you are in our hearts for the dying together and living together.
2CO 7:4 It is much to me to be in an open manner with you; it is much to me in boasting over you. I have been filled with comfort; I superabound in the joy over all our affliction.
2CO 7:5 For even our coming into Macedonia, our flesh had no relaxation, but in every way being afflicted; from outside - battles; from inside - fears.
2CO 7:6 But the one comforting the humble, comforts us - God, by the arrival of Titus.
2CO 7:7 But not only in his arrival, but also in the comfort in which he was comforted by you, announcing to us your longing, your grieving, your zeal for me; so as for me more to rejoice.
2CO 7:8 For if even I grieved you in the letter, I repent not, if even I repented. For I see that that letter, (if even for an hour,) grieved you.
2CO 7:9 Now I rejoice, not that you were grieved, but that you were grieved into repentance. For you were grieved according to God, that in nothing you should suffer loss by us.
2CO 7:10 For distress manufactures an irrevocable repentance towards God unto deliverance; but the distress of the world manufactures death.
2CO 7:11 For behold, for this same thing you fretted towards God - how much it manufactured in you - even diligence, even defense, even indignation, even fear, even longing, even zeal, even punishment. In every way you commended yourselves to be pure in the matter.
2CO 7:12 Then if even I wrote to you, it was not because of the one doing wrong, nor because of the one being wronged, but because of the manifesting our diligence over you, for you before God.
2CO 7:13 On account of this we have been comforted over your comfort. But more exceedingly rather we rejoiced at the joy of Titus, that his spirit has been put at rest by all of you.
2CO 7:14 For if in anything I have boasted to him about you, I was not disgraced; but as we spoke all things to you in truth, so also our boasting unto Titus became truth.
2CO 7:15 And his feelings of compassion are more exceedingly towards you, calling to mind the obedience of all of you, as you received him with fear and trembling.
2CO 7:16 I rejoice that in everything I take courage in you.
2CO 8:1 But we make known to you, brothers, the favor of God having been given in the assemblies of Macedonia;
2CO 8:2 that in much proof of affliction, the abundance of their joy, and the depth according to their poorness, abounded to the riches of their simplicity.
2CO 8:3 For according to their power, I witness, and above their power their enthusiasiam,
2CO 8:4 with much consolation beseeching of us the favor and the fellowship of the service for the holy ones, for us to receive it.
2CO 8:5 And not only as we hoped, but of themselves they gave first to the Lord, and to us through the will of God.
2CO 8:6 So that we appealed to Titus, that as he began before, so also he should complete with you also this favor.
2CO 8:7 But as in every way you abound, in belief, and word, and knowledge, and all diligence, and in the love from you to us, that also in this favor you should abound.
2CO 8:8 Not according to command I speak, but through the diligence of others, and the proving of the genuineness of your love.
2CO 8:9 For you know the favor of our Lord Jesus Christ, that for you he became poor - being rich; that you by that ones poorness should be enriched.
2CO 8:10 And an opinion in this I give; for this is advantageous to you, who not only the doing, but also the wanting, began before a year ago.
2CO 8:11 But now also the doing - complete it! So that just as the eagerness of the thing wanted, so also the completing of the having it.
2CO 8:12 For if the eagerness is situated, according to that which ever anyone should have - has., it is well-received, it is not according to that which he does not have.
2CO 8:13 For it is not that others have liberty, but to you affliction;
2CO 8:14 but from out of equality in the present time, that your abundance be for their deficiency, that also their abundance should be for your deficiency, so that equality should take place.
2CO 8:15 As it has been written, The one gathering much was not superabundant; and the one gathering few did not have less.
2CO 8:16 But gratitude be to God, to the one giving the same diligence for you in the heart of Titus.
2CO 8:17 For the comfort indeed he received; but more diligent, being enthusiastic, he came forth to you.
2CO 8:18 And we sent with him the brother, of whom the high praise is in the good news through all the assemblies;
2CO 8:19 and not only so, but also handpicked by the assemblies for our traveling companion with this favor, which is being served by us to the glory of the Lord himself and of your eagerness;
2CO 8:20 getting in readiness for this, lest anyone should scoff at us in the vigor by which this is being served by us;
2CO 8:21 thinking beforehand good things, not only before the Lord, but also before men.
2CO 8:22 And we sent together with them our brother, whom we approved being diligent often in many things, but now much more diligent, in much reliance towards you;
2CO 8:23 whether for Titus, my partner, and for you a fellow-worker; or whether of our brothers, apostles of assemblies, the glory of Christ.
2CO 8:24 The demonstration then of your love, and our boasting for you, demonstrate to them, and in front of the assemblies!
2CO 9:1 For indeed concerning the service for the holy ones, it is more extra for me to write to you.
2CO 9:2 For I know your eagerness, which I boast over you to Macedonia, that Achaia made preparations over a year ago; and the result of your zeal excited the many.
2CO 9:3 And I sent forth the brothers, lest our boasting over you should be nullified in this portion; that, as I said, you should be making preparations;
2CO 9:4 lest perhaps if Macedonians should come with me, and should find you unprepared, we should be disgraced, (so that we should not say - You) in this support of boasting.
2CO 9:5 I esteemed it important then to appeal to the brothers, that they should go forth unto you, and complete beforehand this your preannounced blessing, being prepared, thus as a blessing, and not as if a desire for wealth.
2CO 9:6 But this I say, The one sowing sparingly, also harvests sparingly; and the one sowing for blessings, for blessings also he shall harvest.
2CO 9:7 Let each do as he resolves in the heart, not from distress or from necessity; for God loves a happy giver.
2CO 9:8 And God is able to abound every favor unto you; that in every way, at all times you should abound having all sufficiency for every good work,
2CO 9:9 (As it has been written, He dispersed; he gave to the needy; his righteousness abides into the eon.
2CO 9:10 And the one supplying seed to the one sowing, even may he supply bread for food, and multiply your sowing, and may he increase the offspring of your righteousness;)
2CO 9:11 in every way being enriched in all simplicity, which manufactures through us thankfulness to God.
2CO 9:12 For the service of this ministration not only is filling up in addition the deficiencies of the holy ones, but also abounding through many thanksgivings to God;
2CO 9:13 through the proof of this service glorifying God by the submission of your acknowledgment offering to the good news of the Christ, and simplicity of the fellowship to them and unto all,
2CO 9:14 and their supplication for you, longing after you through the exceeding favor of God unto you.
2CO 9:15 And gratitude be to God over his inexpressible gift.
2CO 10:1 But I myself, Paul appeal to you through the gentleness and clemency of the Christ, who in person indeed am humble among you, and absent I take courage in you.
2CO 10:2 But I beseech you, the one not at hand, to take courage with the reliance which I consider to dare against some of the ones considering us as walking according to the flesh,
2CO 10:3 for walking in the flesh we soldier not according to the flesh.
2CO 10:4 For the weapons of our army are not fleshly, but mighty with God to the demolition of fortresses;
2CO 10:5 demolishing devices, and every height being lifted up against the knowledge of God, and captivating every thought into the obedience of the Christ;
2CO 10:6 and having in readiness to punish all disobedience, whenever your obedience should be fulfilled.
2CO 10:7 The things according to appearance do you take heed only? If anyone is persuaded in himself to be of Christ, let him consider this again of himself, that, as he is of Christ, so also we are of Christ.
2CO 10:8 For if also even more extra somewhat I should boast concerning our authority, (of which the Lord gave to us for construction, and not for your demolition,) I shall not be ashamed - disgraced.;
2CO 10:9 that I should not seem as if to frighten you through letters.
2CO 10:10 For the letters indeed, one says, are heavy and strong; but the arrival of his person weak, and the word being with contempt.
2CO 10:11 Let such consider this, that as we are in word through letters being absent, such are we at work when at hand.
2CO 10:12 For not do we dare to approve or compare ourselves to some of the ones commending themselves. But they notice not that they are measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves to themselves.
2CO 10:13 But we shall not boast to the things immeasurable, but according to the measure of the rule of which God portioned to us, a measure reaching as far as even of you.
2CO 10:14 For not as one not reaching do we overstretch ourselves to you, for unto you even we arrive with the good news of the Christ;
2CO 10:15 not boasting in things immeasurable in another's toils; but having hope, increasing of the belief of yours, to be magnified among you according to our rule in abundance,
2CO 10:16 to announce good news to the ones farther from you, and not to boast in another's rule already prepared.
2CO 10:17 But the one boasting, let him boast in the Lord.
2CO 10:18 For it is not the one commending himself that is approved, but whom the Lord commends.
2CO 11:1 I would you endure me a little folly; but even endure me!
2CO 11:2 For I am zealous for you with zeal of God. For I suited you to one husband, as a pure virgin to present to the Christ.
2CO 11:3 But I fear, perhaps as the serpent cheated Eve in his cleverness, so your thoughts should be corrupted from the simplicity of the one in the Christ.
2CO 11:4 For if indeed the one coming to proclaim another Jesus, whom we proclaimed not, or you received another spirit, which you received not from us; or another good news, which you received not from us - well you withhold from it.
2CO 11:5 For I consider in nothing to be lacking of the more exceeding apostles.
2CO 11:6 And if even I be a common person in the communication, but I am not in the knowledge; but I am in every way making manifest in all things to you.
2CO 11:7 Or did I commit sin humbling myself that you should be exalted, that without charge I announced good news the good news of God to you?
2CO 11:8 Other assemblies I robbed, taking a ration for your service.
2CO 11:9 And being at hand with you, and being lacking, I was not lax of anyone. For my deficiency the brothers filled up in addition, having come from Macedonia; and in everything I kept myself easy to you, and I will keep it so.
2CO 11:10 It is the truth of Christ in me, that this boasting shall not be shut up in me in the regions of Achaia.
2CO 11:11 Why? because I do not love you? God knows.
2CO 11:12 But what I do, also I shall do, that I should cut off the opportunity of the ones wanting an opportunity; that in what they boast, they should be found as also we.
2CO 11:13 For such ones are false apostles, deceitful workers, changing appearance into apostles of Christ.
2CO 11:14 For it is not surprising for Satan himself to change appearance into an angel of light.
2CO 11:15 It is not a great thing then if even his servants change appearance as servants of righteousness; whom the end will be according to their works.
2CO 11:16 Again I say, no one should assume me to be foolish; but if not, indeed, if as foolish receive me, that I also should boast some a little!
2CO 11:17 What I now say, I say not according to the Lord, but as in folly, in this essence of boasting.
2CO 11:18 Since many boast according to the flesh, also I shall boast.
2CO 11:19 For with pleasure you endure the foolish ones, being practical.
2CO 11:20 For you endure if anyone reduce you to slavery, if anyone devours, if anyone takes, if anyone lifts up himself, if anyone flays you in the face.
2CO 11:21 According to dishonor I speak, as that we were weak. But in which ever anyone should be daring, (in folly I speak,) I also am daring.
2CO 11:22 They are Hebrews? I also. They are Israelites? I also. They are seed of Abraham? I also.
2CO 11:23 They are servants of Christ? (ranting I speak over,) I also in toils - more exceedingly; in beatings - above measure; in imprisonments - more exceedingly; in deaths - often.
2CO 11:24 By the Jews five times I received forty strokes save one.
2CO 11:25 Three times I was beaten with a rod, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, night and day in the deep I have spent,
2CO 11:26 in journeys often, in dangers of rivers, in dangers of robbers, in dangers from my race, in dangers from nations, in dangers in the city, in dangers in desolate places, in dangers in the sea, in dangers among false brothers,
2CO 11:27 in toil and trouble, in sleeplessnesses often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in chilliness and nakedness.
2CO 11:28 Separate from the things outwardly, there is the conspiring against me in the daily anxiety concerning all the assemblies.
2CO 11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I am not on fire?
2CO 11:30 If I must boast, I will boast in the things of my weakness.
2CO 11:31 The God and father of the Lord Jesus Christ knows, (the one being blessed into the eons,) that I do not lie.
2CO 11:32 In Damascus the ethnarch of Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes, wanting to lay hold of me.
2CO 11:33 And through a window in a cord basket I was let down through the wall, and fled from his hands.
2CO 12:1 To boast indeed is not an advantage to me. For I will come unto apparitions and revelations of the Lord.
2CO 12:2 I know a man in Christ fourteen years ago, (whether in body, I know not; or whether outside the body, I know not - God knows;) being seized by force was such a one unto the third heaven.
2CO 12:3 And I know such a man, (whether in the body, or whether outside the body, I know not - God knows;)
2CO 12:4 that he was seized by force into paradise, and heard sayings not made known, which is not allowed for a man to speak.
2CO 12:5 Concerning such a one I will boast; but concerning myself I shall not boast, unless in my weaknesses.
2CO 12:6 For if I should want to boast, I will not be a foolish one; for I shall speak the truth. But I spare, lest anyone should consider me above what he sees me to be, or hears anything of me.
2CO 12:7 And so that I should not be elevated over the excess of the revelations, there was given to me a barb in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, that he should buffet me, that I should not be elevated.
2CO 12:8 For this three times I appealed to the Lord, that it should abstain from me.
2CO 12:9 And he has said to me, Sufficient to you is my favor. For my power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly then rather I will boast in my weaknesses, that the power of the Christ should set up tent over me.
2CO 12:10 Therefore I think well in weaknesses, in insults, in necessities, in persecutions, in straits for Christ. For whenever I should be weak, then I am mighty.
2CO 12:11 I have become a foolish one boasting - you compelled me. For I ought to be commended by you; for in nothing was I lacking of the more exceeding apostles, if even I am nothing.
2CO 12:12 Indeed the signs of the apostle were worked among you in all endurance, in signs, and miracles, and works of power.
2CO 12:13 For in what is it that you were inferior beyond the rest of the assemblies, unless that I myself was not lax of you? Grant me this injustice!
2CO 12:14 Behold, a third time readily I have come to you; and I will not be lax of you. For I seek not the things of yours, but you. For the children ought not to treasure up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
2CO 12:15 And I most gladly will spend and expend for your souls; if even more exceedingly loving you, I be loved less.
2CO 12:16 But let it be! I did not burden you. But being clever, in cunning I took you.
2CO 12:17 Did by any whom I sent to you, through him take advantage of you?
2CO 12:18 I appealed to Titus, and sent along with him the brother. Did Titus take advantage of you in anything? Do we not walk by the same spirit? not in the same tracks?
2CO 12:19 Again, do you think that to you we make a defense? before God in Christ we speak. But all things, beloved, is for your edification.
2CO 12:20 For I fear perhaps having come I should find you not as I want, and I should be found by you such as you want not; lest perhaps there be strife, jealousies, rages, contentions, evil speakings, whisperings, inflation of minds, commotions;
2CO 12:21 and lest again having come, my God should humble me as to you, and I should mourn much of the ones previously sinning, and not having repented over the uncleanness and harlotry and lewdness which they practiced.
2CO 13:1 This third time I come to you. By the mouth of two witnesses and three every saying is established.
2CO 13:2 I have described beforehand, and say beforehand, as being at hand the second time; and being absent now I write to the ones who previously sinned, and to all the rest, that if I should come, for the again, I shall not spare;
2CO 13:3 since you seek a proof of the Christ speaking in me, which among you is not weak, but is mighty in you.
2CO 13:4 For even if he was crucified from out of weakness, yet he lives through power of God. For even we are weak in him, but we shall live with him by God's power among you.
2CO 13:5 Test yourselves, if you are in the belief! Try yourselves! Or do you not recognize yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you - except you are rejected.
2CO 13:6 But I hope that you know that we are not rejected.
2CO 13:7 But I make a vow to God for you to not do anything evil; not that we should appear approved, but that you should do good, and we might be as rejected.
2CO 13:8 For not are we able to do anything against the truth, but for the truth.
2CO 13:9 For we rejoice whenever we should be weak, but you should be mighty. But this also we make a vow - your readying.
2CO 13:10 On account of these things I write being absent, that being at hand I should not treat you severely, according to the authority which the Lord gave to me for edification, and not for demolition.
2CO 13:11 The rest, brothers, rejoice! Be readied! Be comforted! The same thing think! Make peace! And the God of love and peace will be with you.
2CO 13:12 Greet one another with a holy kiss!
2CO 13:13 All the holy ones greet you.
2CO 13:14 The favor of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the holy spirit, be with you all. Amen.
GAL 1:1 Paul, an apostle, (not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the father, the one raising him from the dead;)
GAL 1:2 and all the brothers with me, to the assemblies of Galatia.
GAL 1:3 5484 c\'ariVFavor to you and peace from God the father, and our Lord Jesus Christ,
GAL 1:4 the one giving himself for our sins, so as to rescue us from out of the present wicked age, according to the will of our God and father;
GAL 1:5 to whom be the glory into the eons of the eons. Amen.
GAL 1:6 I marvel that so quickly you are transferred from your calling in favor of Christ to another good news;
GAL 1:7 which is not another; except there are some disturbing you, and wanting to convert the good news of the Christ.
GAL 1:8 But even if we or an angel out of heaven should announce good news to you beyond which good news we announced to you, let him be anathema!
GAL 1:9 As we described beforehand, and just now again I say, If anyone announces good news to you beyond what you took to yourselves, let him be anathema!
GAL 1:10 For now, do I comply with men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if still I please men, I was not then Christ's bondman.
GAL 1:11 But I make known to you, brothers, the good news, the good news announced by me, that it is not according to man.
GAL 1:12 For I not even received it from man, nor was taught it, but through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
GAL 1:13 For you heard my behavior at some time or other in Judaism, that according to excess I persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it.
GAL 1:14 And I progressed in Judaism beyond many contemporaries among my race, being exceedingly more zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
GAL 1:15 But when God thought well to separate me from out of the belly of my mother, and called me by his favor,
GAL 1:16 to reveal his son in me, that I should announce him good news among the nations; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood.
GAL 1:17 Nor went I up to Jerusalem to the apostles before me; but I went forth to Arabia, and again returned to Damascus.
GAL 1:18 Thereupon after three years I went up to Jerusalem to inquire of Peter, and I remained with him fifteen days.
GAL 1:19 But other apostles I saw not, except James the brother of the Lord.
GAL 1:20 And what things I write to you, behold, before God, that I do not lie.
GAL 1:21 Thereupon I came to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
GAL 1:22 And I was not known by face to the assemblies of Judea in Christ.
GAL 1:23 Only they were hearing that, The one persecuting us at one time, now announces good news - the belief, which at one time he ravaged.
GAL 1:24 And they glorified God in me.
GAL 2:1 Then after fourteen years again I ascended to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking along also Titus.
GAL 2:2 And I ascended according to revelation, and presented to them the good news which I proclaim among the nations, and in private to the ones assuming leadership, lest perhaps in vain I run, or ran.
GAL 2:3 But not even Titus, the one with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.
GAL 2:4 And that on account of the intrusions of false brothers, who entered privately to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, that they shall reduce us to slavery.
GAL 2:5 To whom not even for an hour we yielded way in the submission; that the truth of the good news should abide with you.
GAL 2:6 But from the ones seeming to be something, as to like whatever they were differs nothing to me. God does not take the person of a man; for the ones seeming important conferred nothing to me.
GAL 2:7 But on the other hand, having seen that I have been trusted with the good news of the uncircumcised, as Peter of the circumcision,
GAL 2:8 (for the one operating in Peter for commission of the circumcision, operated also to me among the nations.)
GAL 2:9 And knowing the favor being given to me, James, and Cephas, and John, assuming to be columns of strength, gave to me and Barnabas their right hands of fellowship, that we should go unto the nations, but they to the circumcision.
GAL 2:10 Only that we should remember the poor; which even I was hurried to do this same thing.
GAL 2:11 But when Peter came to Antioch in person, I opposed him, for he was for being condemned.
GAL 2:12 For before the coming of some from James, he was eating with the Gentiles. But when they came, he kept back and separated himself, fearing the ones of the circumcision.
GAL 2:13 And also the rest of the Jews acted the hypocrite with him; so that even Barnabas was led away by them in the hypocrisy.
GAL 2:14 But when I saw that he walked not uprightly to the truth of the good news, I said to Peter in front of all, If you, being Jewish-like, live like the nations and not like a Jew, why do you compel the nations to Judaize?
GAL 2:15 We are by nature Jews, and not sinners of the nations;
GAL 2:16 and knowing that man is not justified from works of law, but through belief of Jesus Christ, and we trusted in Christ Jesus, that we should be justified of belief of Christ, and not by works of law; For not shall any flesh be justified by works of law.
GAL 2:17 And if seeking to be justified in Christ, we have been found also ourselves sinners, is then Christ a servant of sin? May it not be.
GAL 2:18 For if what I deposed, these things again I build back up, I stand a violator myself.
GAL 2:19 For I through law died to law, that to God I should live.
GAL 2:20 5547 crist\'wI have been crucified with Christ. But I live; no longer I, but Christ lives in me. But that flesh which I now live in, I live in belief - in the one of the son of God loving me, and delivering himself up for me.
GAL 2:21 I do not annul the favor of God. For if righteousness is through law, then Christ died for nothing.
GAL 3:1 O unthinking Galatians, who charmed you to not yield to the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was written about beforehand, being crucified among you?
GAL 3:2 This only I want to learn from you, Was it from works of law you received the spirit, or by report of belief?
GAL 3:3 Are you so unthinking? commencing in spirit, you are now completed in flesh?
GAL 3:4 Did you suffer so many things in vain? if indeed even it be vain.
GAL 3:5 The one then supplying to you the spirit, and operates power in you - is it from works of law, or is it from report of belief?
GAL 3:6 As how Abraham trusted in God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness.
GAL 3:7 Know then that the ones of belief, these are sons of Abraham.
GAL 3:8 And the scripture saw at a distance that of belief God justifies the nations, advancing good news to Abraham, saying that, All the nations shall be blessed by you.
GAL 3:9 So that the ones of belief are blessed with the believing Abraham.
GAL 3:10 For as many as are of works of law, are under a curse. For it has been written, Accursed be all who do not adhere in all the things having been written in the scroll of the law to do them.
GAL 3:11 But that by law no one is being justified with God is manifest; for it says, The just one shall live of belief.
GAL 3:12 But the law is not of belief. But the man observing them shall live by them.
GAL 3:13 Christ bought us back from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it has been written, Accursed is every one hanging upon a tree.
GAL 3:14 That to the nations the blessing of Abraham should take place in Christ Jesus; that the promise of the spirit we should receive through the belief.
GAL 3:15 Brothers, according to manman's system. I speak. Even a covenant of a man having been validated, no one annuls or adds further.
GAL 3:16 And to Abraham the promises were spoken, and to his seed. And he says not, to the seeds, as unto many; but as unto one, saying, And to your seed - which is Christ.
GAL 3:17 And this I say, that the covenant being validated before by God in Christ - the law taking place after four hundred and thirty years voids not so as to render the promise useless.
GAL 3:18 For if the inheritance is of law, no longer is it of promise; but to Abraham through promise God granted it.
GAL 3:19 Why then the law? It was added for favor of the violations, until of which time the seed should come to whom it has been promised; it was set in order by messengers in the hand of a mediator.
GAL 3:20 But the mediator is not one; but God is one.
GAL 3:21 Then is the law against the promises of God? May it not be. For if a law was given being able to restore life, then really the righteousness was then of law.
GAL 3:22 But the scripture consigned the whole under sin, that the promise of belief of Jesus Christ should be given to the ones trusting.
GAL 3:23 But before the belief coming, we were guarded by law, having been consigned to the about to be uncovering of belief.
GAL 3:24 So that the law has become our instructor up to Christ, that we should be justified of belief.
GAL 3:25 But of the belief having come, no longer are we under an instructor;
GAL 3:26 for you are all sons of God through the belief in Christ Jesus.
GAL 3:27 For as many as were immersed put on Christ.
GAL 3:28 There is not Jew nor Greek, there is not bondman nor free, there is not male and female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus.
GAL 3:29 And if you are of Christ, then you are of the seed of Abraham, and heirs according to promise.
GAL 4:1 And I say, for as long a time the heir is an infant, in no way does he differ from a bondman, though being master of all things.
GAL 4:2 But he is under caretakers and managers until the fixed day of the father.
GAL 4:3 So also us, when we were infants under the elements of the world, we were being enslaved.
GAL 4:4 But when came the fullness of the time, God sent forth his son, being born of a woman, being born under law,
GAL 4:5 that the ones under law he should buy back, that the adoption we should accept.
GAL 4:6 But because you are sons, God sent out the spirit of his son in your hearts, crying out, Abba father.
GAL 4:7 So that no longer are you a bondman, but a son; and if a son, also an heir of God through Christ.
GAL 4:8 But then indeed not knowing God, you were a slave to the ones not by nature being gods.
GAL 4:9 But now, having known God, but rather having been known by God, how do you return again unto the weak and poor elements, in which again as at the beginning you want to serve?
GAL 4:10 You closely watch days, and months, and times, and years.
GAL 4:11 I fear for you, lest perhaps in vain I have tired in labor for you.
GAL 4:12 I beseech you brothers become as I am for also I am as you! In nothing you wronged me.
GAL 4:13 But you know that through weakness of the flesh I announced good news to you formerly.
GAL 4:14 And my test in my flesh you treated not with contempt, nor rejected with contempt; but as a messenger of God you received me, even as Christ Jesus.
GAL 4:15 What then was your blessing? For I witness to you that if able, having gouged out your eyes you would have given them to me.
GAL 4:16 So then have I become your enemy, being truthful with you?
GAL 4:17 They are zealous for you, but not for well; but they want to exclude you, that you should be zealous for them.
GAL 4:18 But it is good to be zealous in good at all times, and not only in my being at hand with you.
GAL 4:19 My sons, whom again I travail as far as of which time Christ should have been formed in you,
GAL 4:20 and I wanted to be at hand with you just now, and to change my voice; for I am perplexed as to you.
GAL 4:21 Tell me, O ones wanting to be under law - Do you not hearken to the law?
GAL 4:22 For it has been written, that Abraham had two sons, one of the maidservant, and one of the free woman.
GAL 4:23 But the one indeed of the maidservant has been born according to flesh; but the one of the free woman was through the promise.
GAL 4:24 Which things are allegorized. For these are the two covenants; one indeed from mount Sinai, born in slavery, which is Hagar.
GAL 4:25 For Hagar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and corresponding with the present Jerusalem, and she slaved with her children.
GAL 4:26 But the upward Jerusalem is free, which is mother of all of us.
GAL 4:27 For it has been written, Be glad, O sterile one not giving birth! Break asunder and yell, O one not travailing! For many are the children of the barren rather than of the one having the husband.
GAL 4:28 And we, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
GAL 4:29 But as then the one born according to flesh persecuted the one born according to spirit, so also now.
GAL 4:30 But what says the scripture? Cast out the maidservant and her son! For not in any way shall the son of the maidservant inherit with the son of the free one.
GAL 4:31 So then, brothers, we are not children of the maidservant, but of the free one.
GAL 5:1 In the freedom then in which Christ freed us, stand firmly, and do not again be pressed upon with the yoke of slavery!
GAL 5:2 Behold! I Paul say to you, that if you should be circumcised, Christ shall derive you no benefit.
GAL 5:3 And I testify again to every man being circumcised, that he is a debtor to observe the entire law.
GAL 5:4 You were rendered useless from the Christ, O ones whoever are being justified by the law; you fell from favor.
GAL 5:5 For we in spirit of belief await the hope of righteousness.
GAL 5:6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision prevails any, nor uncircumcision; but belief operating through love.
GAL 5:7 You were running well; who hindered you to not comply with the truth?
GAL 5:8 The persuasion is not from out of him calling you.
GAL 5:9 A little yeast leavens the entire batch.
GAL 5:10 I am persuaded as to you in the Lord, that you shall not think any other way; and the one disturbing you shall bear the judgment, whoever he should be.
GAL 5:11 But I, brothers, if circumcision I still proclaim, why yet am I persecuted? Then the obstacle of the cross is cleared away.
GAL 5:12 Ought that they shall cut off the ones overthrowing you.
GAL 5:13 For you were called unto freedom, brothers; only not the freedom in opportunity in the flesh; but through the love serve one another!
GAL 5:14 For the whole law in one account is fulfilled, in the saying; You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
GAL 5:15 But if you bite one another and devour, take heed! lest by one another you should be consumed.
GAL 5:16 And I say, Walk in spirit! and in no way should you fulfill the desire of the flesh.
GAL 5:17 For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And these are an adversary to one another. That not what ever you should want to do these things you should do.
GAL 5:18 But if in spirit you be led, you are not under law.
GAL 5:19 And the works of the flesh are apparent, which are; adultery, harlotry, uncleanness, lewdness,
GAL 5:20 idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, strifes, jealousies, rages, contentions, discords, sects,
GAL 5:21 envies, murders, intoxications, debaucheries, and the things likened to these. Which I say beforehand to you, as also I foretold, that the ones practicing such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
GAL 5:22 But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, leniency, graciousness, goodness, belief,
GAL 5:23 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is not a law.
GAL 5:24 But the ones of the Christ crucified the flesh with the passions and the lusts.
GAL 5:25 If we live in spirit, in spirit also we should be conformed to.
GAL 5:26 We should not become ones self-seeking of glory, challenging one another, bearing a grudge against one another.
GAL 6:1 Brothers, if even a man should be taken first in some transgression, you the spiritual ones ready such in spirit of gentleness! watching yourself lest also you should be tested.
GAL 6:2 Bear one another's loads! and so you shall fulfill the law of the Christ.
GAL 6:3 For if anyone thinks to be anything, being nothing, he deceives his own mind.
GAL 6:4 And let each try his own work, and then in himself only shall he have cause for boasting, and not as to another.
GAL 6:5 For each shall bear his own load.
GAL 6:6 And let the one being instructed in the word participate with the one instructing in all good things!
GAL 6:7 Be not misled! God is not to be sneered at. For whatever a man should sow, this also he shall reap.
GAL 6:8 For the one sowing to his own flesh, of the flesh shall harvest corruption; but the one sowing for the spirit, of the spirit shall reap life eternal.
GAL 6:9 And in doing good we should not tire; for in its own time we shall harvest, not fainting.
GAL 6:10 So then as we have occasion, we should work good to all, and especially to the members of the family of the belief.
GAL 6:11 Behold how great letters I wrote to you by my hand!
GAL 6:12 As many as want to have the right appearance in the flesh, these compel you to be circumcised; only that they should not be persecuted for the cross of the Christ.
GAL 6:13 For neither the ones being circumcised themselves guard the law; but they want you to be circumcised, that they should boast in your flesh.
GAL 6:14 But for me may it not be to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom to me the world has been crucified, and I to the world.
GAL 6:15 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision prevails in anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
GAL 6:16 And as many as shall conform to this rule, peace be upon them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God.
GAL 6:17 For the rest, let no one make troubles for me. For I bear the marks of the Lord Jesus in my body.
GAL 6:18 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.
EPH 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through the will of God, to the holy ones being in Ephesus, and believers in Christ Jesus.
EPH 1:2 Favor to you, and peace from God our father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
EPH 1:3 Blessed be the God and father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the one having blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ.
EPH 1:4 As he chose us in him before the founding of the world, for us to be holy and unblemished before him in love.
EPH 1:5 Having predefined us for adoption through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good-pleasure of his will,
EPH 1:6 in high praise of the glory of his favor, in which he showed favor on us by the one being loved.
EPH 1:7 By whom we have the release by ransom through his blood, the release of transgressions, according to the riches of his favor;
EPH 1:8 which he abounded in us in all wisdom and intelligence;
EPH 1:9 having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good-pleasure which he purposed in himself,
EPH 1:10 for administration of the fullness of the times, recapitulating all things in the Christ - the things in the heavens, and the things on the earth, in him.
EPH 1:11 In whom also we were chosen by lot, being predefined according to the intention of the one operating all things according to the counsel of his will.
EPH 1:12 For us to be in high praise of his glory - of the ones hoping earlier in the Christ.
EPH 1:13 In whom you also, having heard the word of the truth - the good news of your deliverance; in whom also having trusted, you were sealed in the spirit of the promise in the holy,
EPH 1:14 which is the deposit of our inheritance, in a release by ransom of the procurement, in high praise of his glory.
EPH 1:15 Because of this, I also having heard the belief among you in the Lord Jesus, and the love towards all the holy ones,
EPH 1:16 cease not giving thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
EPH 1:17 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the father of glory, should give spirit of wisdom to you and revelation in full knowledge of him;
EPH 1:18 giving light of the eyes of your thought, for you to know what is the hope of his calling, and what is the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the holy ones,
EPH 1:19 and what is the exceeding greatness of his power in us the ones believing, according to the energy of the might of his strength,
EPH 1:20 which he operated in the Christ, having raised him from the dead, and seated him at his right hand in the heavenlies,
EPH 1:21 above every sovereignty, and authority, and power, and lordship, and every name named, not only in this eon, but also in the one about to be.
EPH 1:22 And all things he submitted under his feet, and gave him to be head over all things to the assembly,
EPH 1:23 which is his body, the fullness of the one fulfilling all things in all.
EPH 2:1 And you being dead in transgressions and sins;
EPH 2:2 in which at one time you walked according to the eon of this world, according to the ruler of the authority of the air, of the spirit now operating in the sons of disobedience;
EPH 2:3 among whom also we all behaved at some time or other in the desires of our flesh, doing the wants of the flesh and the thoughts; and were children by nature of wrath, as even the rest.
EPH 2:4 But the God being rich in mercy, through the great love of his which he loved us,
EPH 2:5 and we being dead in the transgressions, are made alive together in the Christ, (by favor you are being delivered;)
EPH 2:6 and raised up together, and seated together in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus.
EPH 2:7 That he should demonstrate in the eons coming, the exceeding riches of his favor in graciousness upon us in Christ Jesus.
EPH 2:8 For by favor you are being preserved through the belief; and this gift of God is not of you -
EPH 2:9 not of works, lest any should boast.
EPH 2:10 For we are a thing made by him, being created in Christ Jesus for good works, the ones whom God prepared beforehand, that in them we should walk.
EPH 2:11 Therefore remember (that you at some time or other, the nations in the flesh, the ones being called the uncircumcision by the one being called the circumcision in the flesh made by hand,)
EPH 2:12 that you were in that time separate from Christ, being separate of the citizenship of Israel, and strangers of the covenants of the promise, not having hope, and atheists in the world!
EPH 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus, you, the ones at some time or other being far off, became near by the blood of the Christ.
EPH 2:14 For he is our peace, the one having made both one, and having loosed the partition of the barrier;
EPH 2:15 the enmity of the law of commandments in decrees he cleared away by his flesh, that the two he should create in himself into one new man, making peace;
EPH 2:16 and should reconcile both in one body to God through the cross, having killed the enmity by it.
EPH 2:17 And having come to announce good news of peace to you, to the ones far and to the ones near;
EPH 2:18 that through him we both have the access by one spirit to the father.
EPH 2:19 So then, no longer are you strangers and sojourners, but fellow-citizens of the holy ones, and members of the family of God;
EPH 2:20 being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets - Jesus Christ himself being the one cornering;
EPH 2:21 in whom every construction fits together to grow into a holy temple in the Lord;
EPH 2:22 in whom also you are being built up together for a home of God in spirit.
EPH 3:1 For this favor, I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for you of the nations,
EPH 3:2 if indeed you heard the administration of the favor of God having been given to me towards you;
EPH 3:3 that by revelation he made known to me the mystery; (as I wrote beforehand a little,
EPH 3:4 to which you are able reading to comprehend my understanding in the mystery of the Christ)
EPH 3:5 which unto other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as now it was revealed to his holy apostles and prophets in spirit;
EPH 3:6 for the nations to be joint-heirs, and joint-bodies, and joint-partners, of his promise in the Christ through the good news,
EPH 3:7 of which I became servant according to the gift of the favor of God given to me according to the energy of his power.
EPH 3:8 To me, the less than the least of all of the holy ones, was given this favor among the nations, to announce good news - the untraceable riches of the Christ;
EPH 3:9 and to enlighten all as to what is the fellowship of the mystery of the thing being concealed from the eons by God, to the one having created all things through Jesus Christ,
EPH 3:10 that the multifarious wisdom of God should be made known now to the sovereignties and to the authorities among the heavenlies through the assembly,
EPH 3:11 according to the intention of the eons, which he made in Christ Jesus our Lord;
EPH 3:12 in whom we have an open manner and access in reliance through the belief of his.
EPH 3:13 Therefore I ask not to tire in my afflictions for you, which is your glory.
EPH 3:14 For this favor I bend my knees to the father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
EPH 3:15 of whom every family in the heavens and upon earth is named,
EPH 3:16 that he should give to you, (according to the riches of his glory,) power to be fortified through his spirit, in the inside man;
EPH 3:17 for the Christ to dwell through the belief in your hearts, in love being rooted and founded;
EPH 3:18 that you should be competent to perceive with all the holy ones what is the width, and length, and depth, and height;
EPH 3:19 and to know the love of the Christ which exceeds knowledge, that you should be filled in all the fullness of God.
EPH 3:20 And to the one being able above all to do superabundantly what we ask or comprehend, according to the power operating in us,
EPH 3:21 to him be the glory in the assembly in Christ Jesus, to all the generations of the eon of the eons. Amen.
EPH 4:1 I appeal then to you, I the prisoner in the Lord, to walk worthily of the calling of which you were called,
EPH 4:2 with all humility and gentleness, with leniency, enduring one another in love;
EPH 4:3 hurrying to keep the unity of the spirit in the bonding together of peace.
EPH 4:4 One body, and one spirit, as also you were called in one hope of your calling;
EPH 4:5 one Lord, one belief, one immersion,
EPH 4:6 one God and father of all, the one over all, and through all, and in you all.
EPH 4:7 And in each one of us was given the favor according to the measure of the gift of the Christ.
EPH 4:8 Therefore he says, Having ascended into the height he captured the captivity, and he gave gifts to men.
EPH 4:9 (And the one that ascended, what is it unless that also he came down first unto the lower parts of the earth?
EPH 4:10 The one having come down, he is also the one having ascended up above all the heavens, that he should fulfill all things.)
EPH 4:11 And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; but some, shepherds and teachers;
EPH 4:12 for the readying of the holy ones for a work of service, for edification of the body of the Christ.
EPH 4:13 Until we should all arrive in the unity of the belief, and of the full knowledge of the son of God, in a perfect man, in the measure of the stature of the fullness of the Christ.
EPH 4:14 That no longer should we be infants, being swelled and carried round about by every wind of the instruction, in the cunning of men, in cleverness to the craft of the delusion;
EPH 4:15 but being truthful in love, we should grow into him in all things, which is the head - the Christ.
EPH 4:16 From whom all the body being fitted together and instructed by every ligament of the supply, according to energy in measure of each one part, be for the growth of the body to produce for itself to the construction of itself in love.
EPH 4:17 This then I say, and testify in the Lord, for you no longer to walk as also the rest of the nations walk, in the folly of their mind,
EPH 4:18 being darkened in the mind, being separated from the life of God, through the ignorance being in them, through the callousness of their heart;
EPH 4:19 who being numbed, delivered themselves up to lewdness, for a work of all uncleanness in a desire for wealth.
EPH 4:20 But you learned not thus the Christ;
EPH 4:21 if indeed you heard him, and were taught by him - as truth is in Jesus;
EPH 4:22 for you to put aside, according to the former behavior, the old man being corrupt according to the desires of the deception;
EPH 4:23 and to be renewed in the spirit of your mind;
EPH 4:24 and to put on the new man, the one according to God being created in righteousness and sacredness of the truth.
EPH 4:25 Therefore having put aside the lie, let each speak truth with his neighbor! For we are members of one another.
EPH 4:26 Be you angry? then do not sin! Do not let the sun set upon the provocation of your anger!
EPH 4:27 Nor give place to the devil!
EPH 4:28 The one stealing no longer let him steal! But rather let him tire working the good thing with the hands, that he should have something to share with the one having need!
EPH 4:29 Every rotten word from out of your mouth let not go forth! but if anything good for edification of the need - that it should give favor to the ones hearing.
EPH 4:30 And do not fret the holy spirit of God, in which you were sealed for the day of release by ransom!
EPH 4:31 All bitterness, and rage, and anger, and roaring, and blasphemy, take away from you with all evil!
EPH 4:32 And be to one another gracious, compassionate; granting to each other, as also God granted to us in Christ!
EPH 5:1 Become then mimics of God as beloved children!
EPH 5:2 And walk in love, as also the Christ loved us, and delivered himself up for us as an offering and sacrifice to God for a scent of pleasant aroma!
EPH 5:3 And harlotry, and all uncleanness, or desire for wealth, let it not be named among you, as is becoming to holy ones;
EPH 5:4 and indecency, and moronish talking, or obscene jokes not relating - but rather thankfulness!
EPH 5:5 For this you are knowing, that every fornicator, or unclean, or hoarder of wealth, who is an idolater, does not have an inheritance in the kingdom of the Christ and of God.
EPH 5:6 Let not one of you be deceived with empty words! For on account of these things comes the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience.
EPH 5:7 Do not then become joint-partners with them!
EPH 5:8 For you were at some time or other darkness, but now light in the Lord - walk as children of light,
EPH 5:9 (for the fruit of the spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth;)
EPH 5:10 distinguishing what is well-pleasing to the Lord!
EPH 5:11 And do not partake together with the unfruitful works of darkness - but rather even reprove!
EPH 5:12 For the things secretly taking place by them, it is shameful even to speak.
EPH 5:13 But all being reproved are made manifest by the light. For the thing manifesting all things is light.
EPH 5:14 Therefore he says, Arise, O sleeping one, and rise up from the dead, and the Christ shall shine upon you!
EPH 5:15 Take heed then how exactly you walk! not as unwise ones, but as wise ones,
EPH 5:16 buying back the time; for the days are wicked.
EPH 5:17 On account of this do not become foolish ones, but be perceiving what the will of the Lord is!
EPH 5:18 And be not intoxicated with wine, in which is carnality! But be filled in spirit!
EPH 5:19 speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual odes, singing and strumming in your heart to the Lord;
EPH 5:20 giving thanks at all times for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to the God and father;
EPH 5:21 being submitted to one another in a fear of God.
EPH 5:22 Let the wives submit to their own husbands, as to the Lord!
EPH 5:23 For the husband is head of the wife, as also the Christ is head of the assembly; and he is deliverer of the body.
EPH 5:24 But as the assembly submits to the Christ, so also the wives to their own husbands in all things.
EPH 5:25 Let the husbands love their own wives, as also the Christ loved the assembly, and delivered himself up for it;
EPH 5:26 that he should sanctify it, having cleansed it in the bath of water by the word,
EPH 5:27 that he should present it to himself the honorable assembly, not having stain, or wrinkle, or any such things; but that it should be holy and unblemished.
EPH 5:28 So ought the husbands to love their own wives as their own bodies. The one loving his own wife loves himself.
EPH 5:29 For no one at some time or other detests his own flesh; but nourishes and comforts it, as also the Lord for the assembly.
EPH 5:30 For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
EPH 5:31 For of this a man leaves behind his father and mother, and cleaves to his wife, and the two will be for one flesh.
EPH 5:32 This mystery is great - and I speak as to Christ, and as to the assembly.
EPH 5:33 Only also you, everyone, so let each love his own wife as himself; and the wife - that she should fear the husband!
EPH 6:1 The children - obey your parents in the Lord, for this is just!
EPH 6:2 Esteem your father and mother; (which is the first commandment in promise;)
EPH 6:3 that it should be good to you, and you will be a long time upon the earth!
EPH 6:4 And the fathers - do not provoke to anger your children, but nourish them in instruction and admonition of the Lord!
EPH 6:5 The bondmen - obey the masters according to flesh, with fear and trembling, in simplicity of your heart, as to the Christ!
EPH 6:6 not according to eyeservice, as ones who try to please men, but as bondmen of the Christ, doing the will of God from the soul,
EPH 6:7 with good-will serving as to the Lord, and not to men.
EPH 6:8 Knowing that what ever any good each should do, this he shall carry from the Lord, whether bondman or whether free.
EPH 6:9 And the masters - do the same things to them, sparing intimidation! knowing that also your own master is in heavens; and there is not discrimination with him.
EPH 6:10 For the rest, my brothers, be empowered in the Lord, and in the might of his strength!
EPH 6:11 Put on the full armor of God, for you to be able to stand against the craft of the devil!
EPH 6:12 For the wrestling is not to us against blood and flesh, but against the sovereignties, against the authorities, against the world rulers of the darkness of this eon, against the spirituals of the wickedness in the heavenlies.
EPH 6:13 On account of this take up the full armor of God, that you should be able to oppose in the wicked day, and all things being worked out, to stand!
EPH 6:14 Stand then, girding your loin in truth, and putting on the chest plate of righteousness;
EPH 6:15 and having sandals tied on the feet in preparation of the good news of peace;
EPH 6:16 upon all having taken up the shield of belief, in which you shall be able to extinguish all the arrows of the wicked one being setting on fire!
EPH 6:17 And receive the helmet of deliverance, and the sword of the spirit, which is God's word!
EPH 6:18 Through all prayer and supplication praying at every time in spirit, and in this same thing being sleepless with all attention, and supplication for all the holy ones;
EPH 6:19 and for me, that to me should be given a word in opening my mouth in an open manner, to make known the mystery of the good news,
EPH 6:20 for which I am an ambassador in a chain; that in it I should speak openly as necessary for me to speak.
EPH 6:21 But that you also should know the things concerning me, what I am doing - all things will be made known to you by Tychicus the beloved brother and trustworthy servant in the Lord.
EPH 6:22 Whom I sent forth to you for this very same thing, that you should know the things concerning us, and he should comfort your hearts.
EPH 6:23 Peace to the brothers, and love with belief, from God the father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
EPH 6:24 Favor be with all the ones loving our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility. Amen.
PHI 1:1 Paul and Timothy, bondmen of Jesus Christ, to all the holy ones in Christ Jesus being in Philippi, with the overseers and servants.
PHI 1:2 Favor to you, and peace from God our father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
PHI 1:3 I give thanks to my God for the memory of you all,
PHI 1:4 at all times in every supplication of mine for all of you, making supplication with joy,
PHI 1:5 for your fellowship in the good news from the first day until the present;
PHI 1:6 being persuaded in this same thing, that the one commencing in you a good work will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ;
PHI 1:7 as is just for me to think this as to you all, because of you having me in your heart; both in my bonds, and in the defense and security of the good news, you all being fellow-partakers of my favor.
PHI 1:8 For God is my witness, how I long after you all in feelings of compassion of Jesus Christ.
PHI 1:9 And this I pray, that the love of yours still more and more should abound in full knowledge and in all perception;
PHI 1:10 for you to approve the things differing; that you might be honest and without cause to stumble in the day of Christ;
PHI 1:11 being filled with fruits of righteousness by Jesus Christ, to glory and high praise of God.
PHI 1:12 But I want you to know, brothers, that the things concerning me rather in progression of the good news have come,
PHI 1:13 so as my bonds to become apparent in Christ in the whole praetorium, and to all the rest;
PHI 1:14 and the more of the brothers relying in the Lord, dare more exceedingly in my bonds to speak the word fearlessly.
PHI 1:15 Some indeed also through envy and strife; but some also through good-pleasure proclaim the Christ.
PHI 1:16 The ones indeed from out of contention announce the Christ, not purely, imagining to add affliction to my bonds.
PHI 1:17 But the ones from out of love, knowing that for a defense of the good news I am situated.
PHI 1:18 For what? Only in every manner, whether an excuse, whether truth, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice, but, also I will rejoice.
PHI 1:19 For I know that this to me shall result in deliverance through your supplication, and the supplying of the spirit of Jesus Christ,
PHI 1:20 according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in every open manner, as at all times, and now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether through life, whether through death.
PHI 1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die gain.
PHI 1:22 But if to live in flesh, this to me is fruit of work. And what I shall take up I know not.
PHI 1:23 But I am constrained by the two, having the desire for disengaging, and to be with Christ is rather much better;
PHI 1:24 but to remain in the flesh is more important for you.
PHI 1:25 And this being persuaded of, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all in your progression and joy of the belief;
PHI 1:26 that your boasting should abound in Christ Jesus in me through my arrival again with you.
PHI 1:27 Only conduct yourselves in public worthily of the good news of the Christ; that whether having come and having seen you, or whether being absent, I should hear the things concerning you, that you stand firmly in one spirit, one soul, fighting together in the belief of the good news;
PHI 1:28 and not being terrified in anything by the ones being an adversary; which to them indeed is a demonstration of destruction, but to you deliverance - and this from God!
PHI 1:29 For to you it was granted concerning Christ, not only the trusting in him, but also the suffering for him;
PHI 1:30 having the same struggle as you saw in me, and now hear of by me.
PHI 2:1 If then there be any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any feelings of compassion and pities,
PHI 2:2 fulfill my joy, that you should be thinking the same, having the same love, unanimous, thinking one thing;
PHI 2:3 nothing according to contention or self seeking-glory; but in humility, esteeming one another superior than themselves!
PHI 2:4 Let not each watch out for the things of themselves, but each also the things of others!
PHI 2:5 For let this thinking be in you, which also is in Christ Jesus!
PHI 2:6 Who existing in the appearance of God, esteemed it not a seizure to be equal with God;
PHI 2:7 but emptied himself, having taken on the appearance of a bondman, having become in the likeness of men.
PHI 2:8 And in condition having been found as a man, he humbled himself, having become subject unto death, even death of the cross.
PHI 2:9 Therefore also God greatly exalted him, and granted to him the name above every name.
PHI 2:10 That at the name of Jesus every knee should bend - heavenly, and earthly, and underground;
PHI 2:11 and every tongue should acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the father.
PHI 2:12 So that, my beloved, as at all times you obeyed, (not as at my arrival only, but now much rather in my absence,) work out your own deliverance with fear and trembling!
PHI 2:13 For God is the one operating in you both to want and to operate for the good-pleasure.
PHI 2:14 Do all things without grumblings and arguings!
PHI 2:15 that you should become blameless and unmixed, children of God, without blemish, in the midst of a generation crooked and perverted, among whom you appear as luminaries in the world;
PHI 2:16 giving heed to the word of life; for a boasting to me in the day of Christ, that I ran not in vain, nor in vain I tired.
PHI 2:17 But even if I am offered as a libation upon the sacrifice and ministration of the belief of yours, I rejoice, and I rejoice along with all you.
PHI 2:18 And likewise also you rejoice, even rejoice along with me!
PHI 2:19 But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send forth Timothy quickly to you, that I also should be full of confidence, having known the things concerning you.
PHI 2:20 For I have no one like-minded, who genuinely shall have concern for the things concerning you.
PHI 2:21 For all seek the things of themselves, not the things of Christ Jesus.
PHI 2:22 But the proof of him you know, that as to a father he served as a child with me in the good news.
PHI 2:23 This one indeed then I hope to send forth (as whenever I look over the things concerning me) immediately.
PHI 2:24 And I am persuaded in the Lord that also I myself shall come quickly.
PHI 2:25 But I esteemed it important that Epaphroditus the brother and fellow-worker and my fellow-soldier, but your apostle, and minister of my need, to send to you,
PHI 2:26 since he was longing after you all, and was anxious for you heard that he was sick.
PHI 2:27 For even he was sick - close to death. But God showed mercy on him; and not him only, but also me, that I should not have distress upon distress.
PHI 2:28 More diligently then I sent him, that, seeing him again, you should rejoice, and I should be free from sorrow.
PHI 2:29 Favorably receive him then in the Lord with all joy; and have such ones in esteem!
PHI 2:30 For because of the work of the Christ he approached unto death, risking his life, that he should supply your deficiency of the ministration towards me.
PHI 3:1 To the rest, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord! The same things to write to you, to me indeed is not laziness, but for you safe.
PHI 3:2 Take heed of the dogs! Take heed of the evil workers! Take heed to the circumcisers!
PHI 3:3 For we are the circumcision, the ones serving in spirit of God, and boasting in Christ Jesus, and not relying in flesh;
PHI 3:4 though I have reliance even in flesh. If any other thinks to rely in flesh, I more.
PHI 3:5 As to circumcision - on the eight day; of the race - of Israel; as to tribe - Benjamin; a Hebrew - of Hebrews; according to law - a Pharisee;
PHI 3:6 according to zeal - persecuting the assembly; according to righteousness in the law - having become blameless.
PHI 3:7 But what was to me gain, these I esteemed loss through the Christ.
PHI 3:8 But certainly, also I esteem all things to be loss on account of the superiority of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord; through whom all things I suffered loss, and esteem them to be dung, that I should gain Christ,
PHI 3:9 and should be found in him not having my righteousness, the one of the law, but the one through belief of Christ, the righteousness of God unto belief;
PHI 3:10 to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformable to his death;
PHI 3:11 if by any means I should arrive at the resurrection of the dead.
PHI 3:12 Not that already I received, or already I have been perfected; but I pursue, if even I should overtake upon which also I was overtaken by the Christ - Jesus.
PHI 3:13 Brothers, I myself consider not to have overtaken; but in forgetting indeed the things behind, but the things in front stretching out farther,
PHI 3:14 towards the aim I pursue unto the victory prize of the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus.
PHI 3:15 As many as then are complete, should think this. And if any think differently, also this God will reveal to you.
PHI 3:16 Besides, in what we attained, by the same rule we are to conform to think the same.
PHI 3:17 Become imitators together of me, brothers, and watch the ones thus walking, as you have us for a model!
PHI 3:18 (For many walk, of whom often I told you, and now even weeping I tell - of the ones enemies of the cross of the of Christ;
PHI 3:19 whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and the glory is in their shame, the ones thinking earthly things.)
PHI 3:20 For of us the citizenship in the heavens exists, of which also we await a deliverer - the Lord Jesus Christ.
PHI 3:21 Who will change the body appearance of our humiliation, for its becoming conformable to the body of his glory, according to the energy of his being able, and to subject to himself the whole.
PHI 4:1 So that, my beloved and longed for brothers, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord, beloved!
PHI 4:2 Euodia I appeal, and Syntyche I appeal, to think the same in the Lord.
PHI 4:3 Yes, I ask also you genuine fellow-companion, aid these women who in the good news fought together with me, also with Clement, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life!
PHI 4:4 Rejoice in the Lord at all times! Again, I say, Rejoice!
PHI 4:5 Let your leniency be known to all men! The Lord is near.
PHI 4:6 Let no one be anxious. But in all - in the prayer and in the supplication with thankfulness let your requests be made known to God!
PHI 4:7 And the peace of God, surpassing every mind, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
PHI 4:8 For the rest, brothers, as much as is true, as much as is serious, as much as is just, as much as is pure, as much as is friendly, as much as is of good report; if any virtue, and if any high praise, these things consider!
PHI 4:9 What also you learned, and received, and heard, and saw in me - these things practice, and the God of peace will be with you!
PHI 4:10 And I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that already at some time you flourished again to think about me; upon which also you thought, but lacked means.
PHI 4:11 Not that I speak as to deficiency; for I learned in what I am to be self-sufficient.
PHI 4:12 I know also to be humble, I know also to abound. In everything and in all things I am initiated both to be full and to hunger, and to abound and to be lacking.
PHI 4:13 I am strong for all things in the one empowering me - Christ.
PHI 4:14 Besides you did well, partaking together with my affliction.
PHI 4:15 And know also you, O Philippians, that in the beginning of the good news, when I came forth from Macedonia, not one assembly participated with me in the matter of portioning out and receiving, except you alone.
PHI 4:16 For also in Thessalonica even once and twice you sent forth for my need.
PHI 4:17 Not that I anxiously seek the gift; but I anxiously seek the fruit being superabundant for your account.
PHI 4:18 But I receive all things, and I abound. I am full, having received by Epaphroditus the things from you - a scent of pleasant aroma, a sacrifice accepted, well-pleasing to God.
PHI 4:19 And my God will fill all your need, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
PHI 4:20 But to the God and father of us be the glory into the eons of the eons. Amen.
PHI 4:21 Greet every holy one in Christ Jesus! The brothers with me greet you.
PHI 4:22 All the holy ones greet you, and especially the ones of the house of Caesar.
PHI 4:23 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
COL 1:1 Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Timothy the brother,
COL 1:2 to the holy ones in Colosse, and trustworthy brothers in Christ. Favor to you, and peace from God our father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
COL 1:3 We give thanks to the God and father of our Lord Jesus Christ, at all times praying for you,
COL 1:4 having heard the belief of yours in Christ Jesus, and the love towards all the holy ones,
COL 1:5 on account of the hope being reserved for you in the heavens, which you heard before in the word of the truth of the good news
COL 1:6 being at hand in you, as also in all the world; and is bearing fruit, as also among you from which day you heard, and realized the favor of God in truth.
COL 1:7 As also you learned from Epaphras the beloved fellow-servant of ours, who is a trustworthy servant for you of the Christ;
COL 1:8 the one also having manifested to us your love in spirit.
COL 1:9 On account of this also we, from which day heard, cease not praying for you, and asking that you should be filled with the full knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;
COL 1:10 for you to walk worthily of the Lord pleasing to all, bearing fruit in every good work, and growing in the full knowledge of God;
COL 1:11 being strengthened in all power, according to the might of his glory, in all patience and long-suffering with joy;
COL 1:12 giving thanks to the God and father making us fit in the portion of the lot of the holy ones in the light.
COL 1:13 Who rescued us from out of the authority of the darkness, and changed us over to the kingdom of the son of his love.
COL 1:14 In whom we have the release by ransom through his blood - the release of sins.
COL 1:15 Who is the image of the unseen God, first-born of all creation.
COL 1:16 For in him were created the whole - the things in the heavens, and the things upon the earth, the visible and the unseen, whether thrones, whether lordships, whether sovereignties, whether authorities; the whole through him and in him have been created.
COL 1:17 And he is before all, and the whole in him combine.
COL 1:18 And he is the head of the body of the assembly; who is the beginning, the first-born from the dead; that he should be preeminent in all things.
COL 1:19 For in him all the fullness thought well to dwell;
COL 1:20 and through him to reconcile the whole to himself; having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him - whether the things upon the earth, whether the things in the heavens.
COL 1:21 And you at some time or other being separated and enemies in thought by wicked works, but now he reconciled
COL 1:22 in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unblemished and without reproach before him;
COL 1:23 if indeed you remain in the belief, being founded and settled, and not being moved about from the hope of the good news of which you heard being proclaimed in all the creation under the heaven, of which I Paul became servant.
COL 1:24 Now I rejoice in my sufferings for you, and filling up again the deficiencies of the afflictions of the Christ in my flesh for his body, which is the assembly;
COL 1:25 of which I became servant according to the management of God given to me for you, to fulfill the word of God -
COL 1:26 the mystery being concealed from the eons and from the generations, but now made manifest to his holy ones;
COL 1:27 ones to whom God wanted to make known what the wealth of the glory of this mystery is among the nations; which is Christ in you, the hope of the glory;
COL 1:28 whom we announce, admonishing every man, and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we should present every man perfect in Christ Jesus.
COL 1:29 In which also I tire in labor, struggling according to his energy operating in me in power.
COL 2:1 For I want you to know how much struggle I have for you, and the ones in Laodicea, and as many as have not seen my face in flesh;
COL 2:2 that their hearts should be comforted, being instructed in love, and in all riches of the full assurance of the understanding, in full knowledge of the mystery of the God and father and of the Christ;
COL 2:3 in whom are all the treasures of the wisdom and of the knowledge concealed.
COL 2:4 And this I say, that not anyone should mislead you in plausible arguments.
COL 2:5 For if even in the flesh I am absent, yet in the spirit I am with you, rejoicing and seeing your order, and the firmness of your belief in Christ.
COL 2:6 As then you took to yourself the Christ - Jesus the Lord, so walk in him!
COL 2:7 being rooted and built up in him, and being firmed up in the belief, as you were taught, abounding in it with thankfulness.
COL 2:8 Take heed lest there shall be anyone robbing you through the fondness of intellectual pursuits and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elements of the world, and not according to Christ!
COL 2:9 For in him dwells all the fullness of the deity bodily.
COL 2:10 And you are being fulfilled in him, who is the head of all sovereignty and authority.
COL 2:11 In whom also you were circumcised by a circumcision not made by hands, in the stripping of the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of the Christ;
COL 2:12 having been buried together with him in the immersion, in which also you were risen up together through the belief of the energy of God, of the one having raised him from the dead.
COL 2:13 And you, being dead in the transgressions, and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, granting forgiveness to us for all the transgressions;
COL 2:14 having wiped away the handwriting by the decrees against us, which was contrary to us, and lifted it from out of the midst, having fastened it with a nail to the cross;
COL 2:15 having divested the sovereignties and the authorities, he made an example in an open manner triumphing over them by it.
COL 2:16 Let not then anyone judge you in food, or in drink, or in the rank of a holiday feast, or new moon, or sabbaths!
COL 2:17 which are a shadow of the things about to be - but the body is of the Christ.
COL 2:18 Let no one deprive you of due reward! wanting by deprivation, and following a religion of angels, entering into things which he has not seen, vainly being inflated by the mind of his flesh,
COL 2:19 and not holding onto the head, from out of which all the body through the ligaments and sinews being supplied and being instructed, grow by the growth of God.
COL 2:20 If then you died with the Christ from the elements of the world, why, as living in the world, do you subject yourselves to decrees,
COL 2:21 ( that is, You should not touch, nor should you taste, nor should you lightly touch;
COL 2:22 which things are all for corruption in abuse;) according to the precepts and instructions of men?
COL 2:23 Which is communication then having wisdom in man made religion, and deprivation, and austerity of the body; not in any value to fullness of the flesh.
COL 3:1 If then you were raised up together with the Christ, seek the things upward, where the Christ is at the right hand of God sitting down!
COL 3:2 Think the things upward, not the things upon the earth!
COL 3:3 For you died, and your life has been hid with the Christ in God.
COL 3:4 Whenever the Christ should be manifested in our life, then also you shall be manifested with him in glory.
COL 3:5 Deaden then your members upon the earth - harlotry, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and the desire for wealth, which is idolatry!
COL 3:6 through which comes the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience.
COL 3:7 Among whom also you walked at some time or other, when you were living in these things.
COL 3:8 But now put aside, even you, all anger, rage, evil, blasphemy, obscene talk from out of your mouth!
COL 3:9 Do not lie to one another! but divesting the old man with his actions;
COL 3:10 and putting on the new man being restored in full knowledge, according to the image of the one creating him;
COL 3:11 where there is not Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, free; but Christ is the all and in all!
COL 3:12 Put on then as chosen ones of God, holy ones, and beloved - feelings of compassion, pity, graciousness, humility, gentleness, long-suffering,
COL 3:13 enduring one another, and granting forgiveness to each other, if any should have any blame against any! As also the Christ granted forgiveness to you, so also you.
COL 3:14 And upon all these things put on the love which is the bonding together of the perfection!
COL 3:15 And let the peace of God preside in your hearts, in which also you were called in one body! And be gracious!
COL 3:16 Let the word of the Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom! teaching and admonishing yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual odes, with favor singing in your heart to the Lord.
COL 3:17 And everything, what ever you should do in word or in work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to the God and father by him.
COL 3:18 The wives - submit to your own husbands, as relates in the Lord!
COL 3:19 The husbands - love the wives, and be not bitter against them!
COL 3:20 The children - obey the parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing to the Lord!
COL 3:21 The fathers - do not aggravate your children, that they should not be depressed!
COL 3:22 The bondmen - obey in all things the masters according to the flesh; not in eyeservices as ones who try to please men, but in simplicity of heart, fearing God!
COL 3:23 And all, whatever you should do, work from the soul as to the Lord, and not to men!
COL 3:24 knowing that from the Lord you shall accept the reward of the inheritance - for to the Lord Christ serve!
COL 3:25 And the one wronging shall receive for what he wronged; and there is not a discrimination.
COL 4:1 Let the masters furnish the thing just and equal to the bondmen; knowing that also you have a master in heavens!
COL 4:2 In the prayer - attend constantly, being vigilant in it in thankfulness!
COL 4:3 praying together also for us, that God should open to us a door of the word, to speak the mystery of the Christ, on account of which also I have been bound,
COL 4:4 that I should make it manifest as is necessary for me to speak.
COL 4:5 Walk in wisdom to the ones outside! buying back the time;
COL 4:6 with your word at all times in favor, being seasoned with salt, to know how it is necessary for you to answer each one.
COL 4:7 All the things concerning me Tychicus will make known to you, the beloved brother, and trustworthy servant, and fellow-servant in the Lord;
COL 4:8 whom I sent forth to you for this same purpose, that he should know the things concerning you, and should comfort your hearts;
COL 4:9 with Onesimus the trustworthy and beloved brother, who is of you. All the things here they shall make known to you.
COL 4:10 Aristarchus my fellow-captive greets you, and Mark the cousin of Barnabas, (concerning whom you received commands - if he should come to you, receive him!)
COL 4:11 and Joshua, the one being called Justus, the ones being of the circumcision. These alone are fellow-workers in the kingdom of God who became an encouragement to me.
COL 4:12 Epaphras greets you, the one from you, a bondman of Christ, at all times struggling for you in the prayers, that you should stand perfect and being filled in every will of God.
COL 4:13 For I bear witness to him, that he has much zeal for you, and the ones in Laodicea, and the ones in Hierapolis.
COL 4:14 Luke the beloved physician greets you, and Demas.
COL 4:15 You greet the brothers in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly in his house!
COL 4:16 And whenever the letter should be read by you, do it that also in the assembly of Laodiceans it should be read; and the one from Laodicea, that also you should read it!
COL 4:17 And say to Archippus, Take heed to the service which you took to yourself in the Lord, that you should fulfill it!
COL 4:18 The greeting by my hand, Paul. Remember my bonds! The favor be with you. Amen.
1TH 1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy, to the assembly of Thessalonians, in God the father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Favor to you, and peace from God our father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1TH 1:2 We give thanks to God at all times concerning all of you, making mention of you in our prayers;
1TH 1:3 continually remembering your work of the belief, and the toil of the love, and the endurance of the hope of our Lord Jesus Christ, before our God and father.
1TH 1:4 Knowing brothers, O ones being loved by God, of your selection,
1TH 1:5 that our good news did not take place in you in word only, but also in power, and in holy spirit, and in much full assurance; as you know what we became among you for you.
1TH 1:6 And you became imitators of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of holy spirit,
1TH 1:7 so that you became models to all the ones believing in Macedonia and Achaia.
1TH 1:8 For the word of the Lord has resounded from you, not only in Macedonia and in Achaia, but also in every place the belief of yours towards God has gone forth; so as for us to have no need to say anything.
1TH 1:9 For they themselves report concerning us as to like what introduction we had towards you, and how you turned to God from the idols to serve a living and true God;
1TH 1:10 and to await his son from out of the heavens, whom he raised from the dead - Jesus, the one rescuing us from the coming wrath.
1TH 2:1 For you yourselves know, brothers, our introduction towards you, that it has not been in vain.
1TH 2:2 But also having suffered before, and having been insulted, as you know, in Philippi, we were speaking openly in our God, to speak to you the good news of God with much struggle.
1TH 2:3 For our exhortation was not from out of delusion, nor from out of uncleanness, nor in deceit.
1TH 2:4 But as having been proved by God to be trusted with the good news, so we speak; not as pleasing men, but to God - the one trying our hearts.
1TH 2:5 For neither at any time with word of flattery did we exist, (as you know,) nor with an excuse for a desire for wealth, (God is witness,)
1TH 2:6 nor seeking glory from men, nor from you, nor from others; though being able in weight to be as Christ's apostles.
1TH 2:7 But we became calm in your midst, as even a nurse should comfort her own children.
1TH 2:8 Thus longing over you, we thought well to share with you, not only the good news of God, but also our own lives, for you have become beloved to us.
1TH 2:9 For you remember, brothers, our toil and trouble. For working night and day, so as to not overburden any of you, we proclaimed to you the good news of God.
1TH 2:10 You are witnesses, and God, how sacredly and justly and blamelessly we were to you the ones believing.
1TH 2:11 Just as you know how each one of you we were comforting and consoling and testifying to you as a father his own children,
1TH 2:12 for you to walk worthily of God, the one calling you into his own kingdom and glory.
1TH 2:13 On account of this also we give thanks to God continually, that taking to yourselves the word of report of God by us, you received not the word of men, but as it is truly, the word of God, which also exerts energy in you the ones believing.
1TH 2:14 For you became imitators, brothers, of the assemblies of God being in Judea in Christ Jesus; that the same things you also suffered by your own fellow-tribesmen, as also they by the Jews,
1TH 2:15 the ones both killing the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and driving you out, and are not pleasing to God, and opposing to all men;
1TH 2:16 (ones restraining us to speak to the nations that they should be delivered,) so as to fill up their sins at all times. But came upon them the wrath to the end.
1TH 2:17 But we, brothers, being orphaned from you for an hour time, in person, not in heart, more exceedingly hurried to behold your face with much desire.
1TH 2:18 Therefore we wanted to come to you, even indeed I Paul, even once and twice; and Satan hindered us.
1TH 2:19 For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of boasting? or is it not also you in front of our Lord Jesus Christ at his arrival?
1TH 2:20 For you are our glory and joy.
1TH 3:1 Therefore no longer holding off, we thought well to be left behind in Athens alone;
1TH 3:2 and we sent forth Timothy our brother and servant of God, and our fellow-worker in the good news of the Christ, for the supporting you, and to comfort you concerning the belief of yours;
1TH 3:3 in the no one shrinking in these afflictions. For you yourselves know that in this we are situated.
1TH 3:4 For also, when we were with you, we said beforehand to you that we are about to be afflicted; as also it happened, and you know.
1TH 3:5 Because of this, I also no longer holding off, sent forth for the knowing the belief of yours, lest perhaps the one testing tested you, and our toil became in vain.
1TH 3:6 But now Timothy having come to us from you, and having announced good news to us, the belief and the love of yours, and that you have at all times a good remembrance of us, longing to see us, just as also we you;
1TH 3:7 because of this we were comforted, brothers, over you in all our affliction and necessity, because of the belief of yours.
1TH 3:8 For now we live if you stand firmly in the Lord.
1TH 3:9 For what thankfulness are we able to recompense God concerning you, for all the joy which we rejoice on account of you before our God;
1TH 3:10 night and day superabundantly beseeching for the beholding your face, and to ready the deficiencies of the belief of yours?
1TH 3:11 And may our God and father himself and our Lord Jesus Christ straighten out our way to you.
1TH 3:12 And may the Lord superabound you, and may he abound the love towards one another, and towards all, just as also we towards you;
1TH 3:13 so as to support your hearts blameless in holiness before the God and our father, at the arrival of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his holy ones.
1TH 4:1 The rest then, brothers, we ask you, and appeal in the Lord Jesus, that as you received from us the thing how it was necessary for you to walk and to please God, that you should abound more.
1TH 4:2 For you know what exhortations we gave to you through the Lord Jesus.
1TH 4:3 For this is the will of God - your sanctification; for you to be at a distance from harlotry;
1TH 4:4 for each of you to know his own vessel, to possess it in sanctification and honor,
1TH 4:5 not in passion of desire, as even the nations not knowing God;
1TH 4:6 to not surpass and to overabound in the matter of his brother; for the one punishing is the Lord concerning all these things, as also we foretold to you, and testified.
1TH 4:7 For God called us not unto uncleanness, but in sanctification.
1TH 4:8 Accordingly the one disregarding, disregards not man, but God, the one also having given his holy spirit to us.
1TH 4:9 And concerning brotherly affection you have not a need for me to write to you; for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another.
1TH 4:10 For even do this towards all the brothers in all Macedonia! But we appeal to you, brothers, to abound more;
1TH 4:11 and to strive earnestly to be quiet, and to do your own things, and to work with your own hands, as we exhorted to you;
1TH 4:12 that you should walk decently towards the ones outside, and no one should have need.
1TH 4:13 But I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning the ones having gone to sleep, that you do not fret, as even the rest not having hope.
1TH 4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose up, so also God will bring with him the ones having gone to sleep through Jesus.
1TH 4:15 For this to you we say by word of the Lord, that we, the ones living, the ones remaining at the arrival of the Lord, in no way should anticipate the ones having gone to sleep.
1TH 4:16 For the Lord himself in a word of command by the voice of an archangel, and with a trumpet of God, shall descend from heaven, and the dead in Christ shall rise up first.
1TH 4:17 Thereupon we the living, the ones remaining, together with them shall be seized in clouds for meeting the Lord in the air. And thus at all times with the Lord we shall be.
1TH 4:18 So then comfort one another by these words!
1TH 5:1 But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, You have not a need to be written to you,
1TH 5:2 for you yourselves know exactly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night.
1TH 5:3 For whenever they should say, Peace and safety; then sudden ruin sets upon them, as if the pangs to the one having one in the womb; and in no way should they flee from it.
1TH 5:4 But you, brothers, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you as a thief.
1TH 5:5 You are all sons of light, and sons of day; we are not of night nor of darkness.
1TH 5:6 So then we should not be sleeping as also the rest; but we should be vigilant and be sober.
1TH 5:7 For the ones sleeping sleep at night; and the ones being intoxicated, are intoxicated at night.
1TH 5:8 But we, being of day, should be sober, putting on the chest plate of belief and love; and helmet - the hope of deliverance.
1TH 5:9 For God set us not for wrath, but for the procurement of deliverence through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1TH 5:10 the one having died for us, that whether we be vigilant, or whether we sleep, together with him we shall live.
1TH 5:11 Therefore comfort one another, and let one build up the other one, as even you do!
1TH 5:12 And we ask you, brothers, to know the ones tiring in labor among you, and being set over you in the Lord, and admonishing you;
1TH 5:13 and to esteem them superabundantly in love on account of their work. Make peace among yourselves!
1TH 5:14 And we appeal to you, brothers, admonish the ones in disorder! Console the ones being faint-hearted! Hold to the weak! Be long-suffering to all!
1TH 5:15 See that not anyone should recompense anyone hurt for hurt! But at all times pursue good, both towards one another and towards all!
1TH 5:16 At all times rejoice!
1TH 5:17 Continually pray!
1TH 5:18 In everything give thanks! For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
1TH 5:19 Do not extinguish the spirit!
1TH 5:20 Do not treat prophecies with contempt!
1TH 5:21 Prove all things! Hold to the good!
1TH 5:22 Be at a distance from every appearance of evil!
1TH 5:23 And he, the God of peace, may he sanctify you perfectly complete; and may your entire spirit and soul and body be kept blamelessly in the arrival of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1TH 5:24 The one calling you is trustworthy, who also will act.
1TH 5:25 Brothers, pray for us!
1TH 5:26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss!
1TH 5:27 I adjure you by the Lord, for the letter to be read to all the sanctified brothers.
1TH 5:28 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
2TH 1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy, to the assembly of Thessalonians in God our father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2TH 1:2 Favor to you, and peace, from God our father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2TH 1:3 We ought to give thanks to God at all times concerning you, brothers, as it is worthy, that your belief is caused to grow exceedingly, and the love of each one of all of you is superabundant to one another;
2TH 1:4 so as for us ourselves to boast in you, among the assemblies of God, over your endurance and belief in all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure -
2TH 1:5 a demonstration of the just judgment of God, in the deeming you worthy of the kingdom of God, for of which also you suffer;
2TH 1:6 if indeed it be just by God to recompense to the ones afflicting you with affliction;
2TH 1:7 and to you, the ones being afflicted, a relaxation with us, in the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with angels of his power,
2TH 1:8 in fire of flame, giving punishment to the ones not knowing God, and to the ones not obeying the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ;
2TH 1:9 who with punishment shall pay eternal ruin from the face of the Lord, and from the glory of his strength;
2TH 1:10 whenever he should come to be glorified among his holy ones, and to be marveled at by all the ones having believed (because our testimony to you was believed ) in that day.
2TH 1:11 For which also we pray at all times for you, that you should be worthy of the calling of our God, and should fulfill every good-pleasure of goodness, and work of belief with power.
2TH 1:12 So that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ should be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the favor of our God and of the Lord Jesus Christ.
2TH 2:1 And we ask you, brothers, concerning the arrival of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our assemblage unto him,
2TH 2:2 for you to not quickly be shaken of the mind, nor to be alarmed, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as by us, that the day of the Christ is present.
2TH 2:3 Let not any completely deceive you in not one manner! For unless the defection should come first, and the man of sin should be uncovered, the son of destruction;
2TH 2:4 the one being an adversary and elevating himself above all being called god, or object of worship, so as for him to sit in the temple of God as God, exhibiting himself that he is God.
2TH 2:5 Do you not remember that still being with you, I said these things to you?
2TH 2:6 And now the one constraining you know, for the uncovering him in his own time.
2TH 2:7 For the mystery of lawlessness already operates, only there is the one constraining just now until he should be from out of the midst.
2TH 2:8 And then the lawless one shall be uncovered, whom the Lord shall consume by the breath of his mouth, and shall render the grandeur of his arrival useless;
2TH 2:9 whose arrival is according to the energy of Satan in every power and signs and miracles of a lie,
2TH 2:10 and in every deception of unrighteousness among the ones being destroyed; because of which they received not the love of the truth for them to be delivered.
2TH 2:11 And on account of this God shall send forth to them an energy of delusion, for them to believe in the lie;
2TH 2:12 that all the ones not believing in the truth but taking pleasure in unrighteousness should be judged.
2TH 2:13 But we ought to give thanks to God at all times concerning you, brothers, beloved by the Lord, that God took you up from the beginning for deliverance in sanctification of spirit and belief of truth;
2TH 2:14 in which he called you through our good news, in procurement of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2TH 2:15 So then, brothers, stand firmly, and hold the traditions which you were taught, whether by word, or whether by our letter!
2TH 2:16 But our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and the God and our father, the one having loved us, and gave eternal comfort, and good hope in favor,
2TH 2:17 may he comfort your hearts, and support you in every good word and work.
2TH 3:1 For the rest, pray, brothers, for us, that the word of the Lord should run, and should be glorified, as also to you.
2TH 3:2 And that we should be rescued from the unnatural and wicked men; for the belief is not of all.
2TH 3:3 But trustworthy is the Lord, who will support you, and will guard you from evil.
2TH 3:4 But we rely in the Lord as to you, that in which we exhort unto you both you are doing and will do.
2TH 3:5 And may the Lord straighten out your hearts in the love of God, and in the endurance of the Christ.
2TH 3:6 And we make exhortation to you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, for you to be in readiness from every brother walking disorderly, and not according to the tradition which he took to himself from us.
2TH 3:7 For you yourselves know how it is necessary to imitate us. For we have not acted disorderly among you;
2TH 3:8 nor freely did we eat bread from anyone; but in toil and trouble night and day, working so as to not overburden any of you.
2TH 3:9 Not that we do not have authority, but that we should give ourselves as a model to you for the imitating us.
2TH 3:10 For also when we were with you, we exhorted this unto you, that if any does not want to work, neither let him eat!
2TH 3:11 For we hear some are walking among you disorderly, not working, but intermeddling.
2TH 3:12 And to such we exhort and appeal by our Lord Jesus Christ, that working with tranquility, they should eat their own bread.
2TH 3:13 But you, brothers, should not tire doing good.
2TH 3:14 And if anyone does not obey our word by this letter, signify and do not intermingle with him, that he should be ashamed!
2TH 3:15 But not as an enemy esteem him, but admonish him as a brother!
2TH 3:16 And may the Lord of peace himself give to you peace continually in every manner. The Lord be with all of you.
2TH 3:17 The greeting by my hand, Paul, which is a sign in every letter - so I write.
2TH 3:18 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.
1TI 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the command of God the father, and our deliverer Jesus Christ, the one of our hope;
1TI 1:2 to Timothy, genuine child in belief. Favor, mercy, peace, from God our father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
1TI 1:3 As I appealed to you to remain in Ephesus, going to Macedonia, that you should exhort some not to teach a different doctrine,
1TI 1:4 nor take heed to fables and unlimited genealogies, which make for inquiries, rather than the administration of God in belief.
1TI 1:5 But the end of the exhortation is love from out of a clean heart, and a good conscience, and of unpretentious belief;
1TI 1:6 which some having missed their aim, turn aside to useless discussion,
1TI 1:7 wanting to be teachers of the law, not comprehending what they say, nor concerning what they positively assert.
1TI 1:8 But we know that the law is good, if anyone should treat it lawfully;
1TI 1:9 knowing this, that to a just one the law is not situated, but for lawless ones, and unsubmissive ones, impious ones, and sinners, unholy ones, and profane ones, murderers of one's father, and murderers of one's mother, manslayers,
1TI 1:10 fornicators, homosexuals, slave traders, liars, perjurers, and if any other be an adversary to healthy instruction;
1TI 1:11 according to the good news of the glory of the blessed God, which I was entrusted.
1TI 1:12 And I have gratitude to the one empowering me - to our Lord Christ Jesus, that he esteemed me trustworthy, appointing me to service;
1TI 1:13 the one formerly being blasphemous, and a persecutor, and arrogant. But I was shown mercy. For being ignorant I acted in unbelief.
1TI 1:14 But the favor of our Lord more than superabounded with belief and love in Christ Jesus.
1TI 1:15 Trustworthy is the word, and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to deliver sinners, whom I am foremost.
1TI 1:16 And because of this I was shown mercy, that in me Jesus Christ should demonstrate foremost all leniency, for setting a pattern for the ones being about to believe upon him unto life eternal.
1TI 1:17 And to the king of the eons, incorruptible, unseen, only wise God, be honor and glory to the eons of the eons. Amen.
1TI 1:18 This exhortation I place unto you, son Timothy, according to the prophecies going before over you, that you should soldier in them the good warfare;
1TI 1:19 having belief, and good conscience; which some having thrust away concerning the belief made shipwreck;
1TI 1:20 whom are Hymeneus and Alexander; whom I delivered up to Satan, that they may be corrected not to blaspheme.
1TI 2:1 I appeal then, first of all to make supplications, prayers, intercessions, thankfulnesses for all men;
1TI 2:2 for kings, and of all the ones being in superiority; that a calm and unassuming existence should be led in all piety and seriousness.
1TI 2:3 For this is good and worthy of being received before God our deliverer;
1TI 2:4 who wants all men to be delivered, and to come to full knowledge of truth.
1TI 2:5 For there is one God, and one mediator of God and of men - the man Christ Jesus;
1TI 2:6 the one giving himself a ransom for all, the testimony to be rendered in its own times;
1TI 2:7 to which I was established a herald and apostle, (truth I speak in Christ, I do not lie;) a teacher of the nations in belief and truth.
1TI 2:8 I want then the men to pray in every place, lifting up sacred hands, separate from anger and arguing.
1TI 2:9 Likewise also the wives in composed apparel, with respect and discreetness to adorn themselves, not in laces, or gold, or pearls, or very costly clothes,
1TI 2:10 but what is becoming to wives promising godliness through good works.
1TI 2:11 Let a wife learn at rest in all submission!
1TI 2:12 And a wife I commit not to their care to teach, nor to domineer a husband, but to be at rest.
1TI 2:13 For Adam first was shaped, then Eve.
1TI 2:14 And Adam was not deceived, but the wife having been deceived has become in violation.
1TI 2:15 But she shall be preserved through childbearing, if they abide in belief and love and sanctification with discreetness.
1TI 3:1 Trustworthy is the word. If any reaches for overseership, he desires a good work.
1TI 3:2 It is necessary then the overseer to be unassailable, a husband of one wife, sober, discreet, composed, hospitable, qualified for teaching,
1TI 3:3 not intemperate in the use of wine, not a brawler, not profiting through vice; but lenient, not quarrelsome, not loving money,
1TI 3:4 standing over his own house well, having children in submission with all seriousness;
1TI 3:5 (and if any knows not how to stand over his own house, how shall he care for the assembly of God?)
1TI 3:6 not a neophyte, that not being deluded he should fall in judgment of the devil.
1TI 3:7 But it is necessary for him also to have a good witness from the ones outside, that he should not fall into scorning, and the snare of the devil.
1TI 3:8 Servants likewise be serious, not double-talking, not attentive to much wine, not profiting through vice;
1TI 3:9 having the mystery of the belief with a clean conscience.
1TI 3:10 And these also, let them be approved first; then let them serve being without reproach!
1TI 3:11 Wives likewise be serious, not slanderers, sober, trustworthy in all things.
1TI 3:12 Servants be husbands of one wife, standing over children well and their own houses!
1TI 3:13 For the ones having served well procure a good rank for themselves, and much confidence in belief in Christ Jesus.
1TI 3:14 These things to you I write, hoping to come to you more quickly.
1TI 3:15 But if I should be slowed, it is that you should know how it is necessary to behave in the house of God, which is the assembly of the living God, column and base of the truth.
1TI 3:16 And confessedly great is the mystery of the piety - God made manifest in flesh, justified in spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among nations, believed in the world, taken up in glory.
1TI 4:1 But the spirit expressly says, that in later times some shall leave the belief, taking heed to spirits of delusion, and instructions of demons;
1TI 4:2 in hypocrisy of speaking lies; their own conscience being seared;
1TI 4:3 restraining to marry, restraining to be at a distance from foods, which God created for participation with thankfulness to the ones trustworthy and recognizing the truth.
1TI 4:4 For every creation of God is good, and nothing to be spurned, with thankfulness being received.
1TI 4:5 For it is sanctified through the word of God and intercession.
1TI 4:6 In placing these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Jesus Christ, being trained up in the words of the belief and the good instruction, which you have followed closely.
1TI 4:7 But the profane and old wives fables refuse! But exercise yourself to piety!
1TI 4:8 For the bodily exercise for a little is beneficial; but piety is beneficial for all things, having promise of life - of the present, and of the one being about to be.
1TI 4:9 Trustworthy is the word and worthy of all acceptance.
1TI 4:10 For in this also we tire in labor and are berated, because we have hope upon a living God, who is deliverer of all men, especially ones believing.
1TI 4:11 Exhort these things and teach!
1TI 4:12 Let no one disdain your youth! but become a model for the ones believing - in word, in behavior, in love, in spirit, in belief, in purity.
1TI 4:13 Until I come, take heed to the reading, to the consolation, to the instruction!
1TI 4:14 Do not neglect the favor in you, which was given to you through prophecy, with laying on of the hands of the council of elders!
1TI 4:15 These things meditate upon! Be in these things, that your progression should be apparent to all!
1TI 4:16 Give heed to yourself, and to the instruction! Remain in them! For this doing you shall deliver both yourself, and the ones hearing you.
1TI 5:1 You should not rebuke an elder. But appeal to him as a father! younger men as brothers;
1TI 5:2 elder women as mothers; younger women as sisters - with all purity.
1TI 5:3 Esteem widows really widows!
1TI 5:4 And if any widow has children or progeny, let them learn first to be pious for their own house, and to repay a repayment to their precursors! For this is good and worthy of being received before God.
1TI 5:5 And the one really a widow, and being left alone, has hope in God, and remains in the supplications and in the prayers night and day.
1TI 5:6 But the one living extravagantly, while living, has died.
1TI 5:7 And these things exhort, that they should be unassailable!
1TI 5:8 And if any thinks not beforehand of his own and especially the ones of his family, he has denied the belief, and is worse than unbelieving.
1TI 5:9 Let not a widow be enrolled being less than sixty years old a wife of one husband,
1TI 5:10 with good works being witnessed, if she reared children, if she was hospitable, if she washed holy one's feet, if she assisted ones being afflicted, if she followed after every good work.
1TI 5:11 And younger widows refuse; for whenever they should grow careless towards the Christ, they want to marry,
1TI 5:12 having judgment, because the first belief they disregarded.
1TI 5:13 And together also idly they learn to go around the houses; but not only idle, but also in prating and useless works, speaking the things they must not.
1TI 5:14 I prefer then younger ones to marry, to bear children, to manage the home, not one opportunity to give to the adversary reviling favor.
1TI 5:15 For already some were turned aside after Satan.
1TI 5:16 If any believing man or believing woman have widows, assist them, and do not weigh down the assembly; that it should assist the ones really widows!
1TI 5:17 Let the elders being well in charge be worthy of double honor, especially the ones tiring in the word and instruction!
1TI 5:18 For the scripture says, You shall not muzzle an ox threshing, and, The worker is worthy of his wage.
1TI 5:19 Do not welcome a charge against an elder from outside, unless by two or three witnesses!
1TI 5:20 The ones sinning reprove before all, that also the rest should have fear!
1TI 5:21 I testify before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the chosen angels, that these things you should guard, separate from prejudice, doing nothing by inclination.
1TI 5:22 Place upon no one a hand quickly, nor participate with sins of strangers! Keep yourself pure!
1TI 5:23 No longer drink water, but use a little wine because of your stomach, and your frequent sicknesses!
1TI 5:24 Of some men the sins are exposed to view, leading before to judgment; but some also follow after.
1TI 5:25 Likewise also the good works are exposed to view, and the ones otherwise having taken place are not able to be hid.
1TI 6:1 As many bondmen as are under the yoke, let them esteem their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and the instruction should not be blasphemed!
1TI 6:2 And the ones having believing masters, let them not disdain because they are brothers! But rather, let them serve them, for they are believers and beloved ones taking hold of good works! These things teach and appeal towards!
1TI 6:3 If anyone teaches a different doctrine, and does not come forward with healthy words, to the ones of our Lord Jesus Christ, and in the instruction according to piety,
1TI 6:4 he is deluded, having knowledge of nothing, but diseased concerning inquiries and arguings over words, of which becomes envy, strife, blasphemies, bad opinions,
1TI 6:5 useless disputations of men corrupting the mind, and depriving of the truth, to think revenue to be piety - separate from such!
1TI 6:6 But there is great revenue - piety with sufficiency.
1TI 6:7 For we have carried nothing into the world, and it is manifest that not even are we able to bring forth anything.
1TI 6:8 But having nourishment and shelters - with these we shall be sufficient.
1TI 6:9 But the ones wanting to be rich fall into a test and a snare, and many unthinking and hurtful desires, which submerge the men into ruin and destruction.
1TI 6:10 For a root of all the evils is the fondness of money; of which some reaching for were led astray from the belief, and pierced themselves on all sides with many griefs.
1TI 6:11 But you, O man of God, flee these things! And pursue righteousness, piety, belief, love, endurance, gentleness!
1TI 6:12 Struggle the good struggle of the belief! Take hold of the eternal life! in which also you were called, and acknowledged the good acknowledgment offering before many witnesses.
1TI 6:13 I exhort to you before God, the one restoring to life all things, and Christ Jesus, the one witnessing unto Pontius Pilate the good acknowledgment offering;
1TI 6:14 for you to keep the commandment spotless, unassailable, until the grandeur of our Lord Jesus Christ;
1TI 6:15 which in its own times the blessed and only mighty one shall show - the king of the ones reigning, and Lord of the ones dominating;
1TI 6:16 the one alone having immortality, living in light not to be equalled, whom not one of man beheld, nor is able to behold; to whom is honor and eternal might. Amen.
1TI 6:17 To the rich in the present eon, exhort to not be high-minded! nor to hope upon the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God furnishing to us all things richly for enjoyment;
1TI 6:18 to do good works, to be rich in good works, ready to share, to be sociable;
1TI 6:19 amassing for themselves a good foundation for the time about to be, that they should take hold of the eternal life.
1TI 6:20 O Timothy, guard the deposit in your care! turning aside from the profane idle talk, and oppositions of the falsely named knowledge.
1TI 6:21 Which some promising concerning the belief missed the aim. The favor be with you. Amen.
2TI 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, through the will of God, according to promise of life in Christ Jesus.
2TI 1:2 To Timothy, my beloved son; Favor, mercy, peace, from God the father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2TI 1:3 Gratitude I have to God, in whom I serve from my precursors with a clean conscience, how I have the memory concerning you continually in my supplications night and day;
2TI 1:4 longing to see you, remembering your tears, that with joy I should be filled;
2TI 1:5 taking recollection of the unpretentious belief in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois, and in your mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that also is in you.
2TI 1:6 For which reason I remind you to rekindle the favor of God, which is in you by the laying on of my hands.
2TI 1:7 For God did not give to us a spirit of dread; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.
2TI 1:8 Therefore you should not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor me his prisoner; But suffer evil along with the good news according to the power of God!
2TI 1:9 of the one preserving us, and having called with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own intention and favor, having been given to us in Christ Jesus before times everlasting;
2TI 1:10 and made manifest now through the grandeur of our deliverer Jesus Christ, the one clearing away indeed death, and having enlightened life and incorruptibility through the good news.
2TI 1:11 In which I was appointed herald, and apostle, and teacher of nations.
2TI 1:12 For which reason also these things I suffer. But I am not ashamed; for I know in whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep my deposit in his care for that day.
2TI 1:13 Have a pattern of healthy words, which you heard by me, in belief and love in Christ Jesus!
2TI 1:14 Guard the good trust through holy spirit dwelling in us!
2TI 1:15 Know this, that they turned away from me- all the ones in Asia; of whom is Phygellus and Hermogenes.
2TI 1:16 May the Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus; for often he refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain.
2TI 1:17 But being in Rome, more diligently he sought me, and found me.
2TI 1:18 May the Lord grant to him to find mercy from the Lord in that day; and for as much as in Ephesus he served - better you know it.
2TI 2:1 You then, my child, be empowered in the favor in Christ Jesus!
2TI 2:2 And the things you heard from me through many witnesses, these things place unto trustworthy men, who will be fit also to teach others!
2TI 2:3 You then suffer hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ!
2TI 2:4 No one soldiering entangles himself in the matters of existence; that he should have pleased the one recruiting him.
2TI 2:5 And if also anyone should fight, he is not crowned if he should not fight lawfully.
2TI 2:6 The farmer must tire by labor before first sharing the fruits.
2TI 2:7 Comprehend what I say! For may the Lord give to you understanding in all things.
2TI 2:8 Remember Jesus Christ being raised up from the dead, from the seed of David, according to my good news!
2TI 2:9 In which I suffer hardship unto bonds as an evildoer (but the word of God is not bound.)
2TI 2:10 Because of this I endure all things on account of the chosen, that also they should attain deliverance in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2TI 2:11 Trustworthy is the word; for if we died together, also we shall live together;
2TI 2:12 if we endure, also we shall reign together; if we deny, that one also will deny us;
2TI 2:13 if we disbelieve, that one is sure to abide; to deny himself he is not able.
2TI 2:14 These things be reminded! testifying before the Lord not to argue over words for no profit, unto the undoing of the ones hearing.
2TI 2:15 Hurry to present yourself unadulterated to God! a worker unashamed, cutting straight the word of truth.
2TI 2:16 And the profane idle talk stand from! For unto more they will progress in impious deeds,
2TI 2:17 and their word as a gangrenous pasture holds forth; whom is Hymeneus and Philetus.
2TI 2:18 Who concerning the truth miss the aim, saying, The resurrection already has taken place; and are upsetting the belief of some.
2TI 2:19 However the foundation of God stands solid, having this seal, The Lord knows the ones being his. And, Let every one naming the name of Christ abstain from iniquity!
2TI 2:20 But in a great house not only are there utensils of gold and silver, but also wooden and earthenware; and some for honor, but others for dishonor.
2TI 2:21 If then one should have cleared himself from these, he shall be a utensil for honor, having been sanctified, and useful to the master, having been prepared for every good work.
2TI 2:22 But the youthful desires flee from; and pursue righteousness, belief, love, peace, with the ones calling upon the Lord out of a clean heart!
2TI 2:23 But the moronish and uninstructed inquiries ask pardon from, knowing that they engender fights!
2TI 2:24 And a bondman of the Lord must not quarrel; but be calm to all, qualified for teaching, enduring evil,
2TI 2:25 in gentleness correcting the ones being in opposition; lest at any time God should give to them a change of heart to full knowledge of truth;
2TI 2:26 and they should recover from out of the snare of the devil, having been taken alive by him for that ones's will.
2TI 3:1 But this know - that in the last days ill-tempered times will be present.
2TI 3:2 For men will be fond of themselves, fond of money, ostentatious, proud, blasphemous, resisting the persuasion of parents, ungracious, unholy,
2TI 3:3 unaffectionate, hostile, devilish, immoderate, untamed, disliking good,
2TI 3:4 betrayers, precipitous, being deluded, friends of pleasure rather than friends of God;
2TI 3:5 having the appearance of piety, but denying its power! Even these turn away from!
2TI 3:6 For from out of these are the ones entering into the houses, and capturing the vain women heaped with sins, being led by various desires,
2TI 3:7 at all times learning, and not at any time being able to come in full knowledge of the truth.
2TI 3:8 And in which manner Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so also these oppose the truth; men being corrupted in the mind, unproved concerning the belief.
2TI 3:9 But they shall not progress unto more; for their thoughtlessness will be evident to all, as also their's was.
2TI 3:10 But you have closely followed my instruction, in the conduct, in the intention, in the belief, in the long-suffering, in the love, in the endurance,
2TI 3:11 in the persecutions, in the sufferings, such as happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra - of such persecutions I endured. And from out of all the Lord rescued me.
2TI 3:12 But even all the ones wanting to live piously in Christ Jesus shall be persecuted.
2TI 3:13 But wicked men and impostors shall progress unto the worse, misleading, and being misled.
2TI 3:14 But you abide in the things which you learned, and were trustworthy, knowing from whom you learned!
2TI 3:15 And that from a babe you knew the consecrated writings, being able to make you wise unto deliverance through belief, of the one in Christ Jesus.
2TI 3:16 Every scripture is God inspired, and beneficial for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness;
2TI 3:17 that the man of God should be complete for accomplishing every good work.
2TI 4:1 I testify then in the presence of God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, the one being about to judge the living and the dead, according to his grandeur and his kingdom.
2TI 4:2 Proclaim the word! Attend opportunely and inopportunely! Reprove! Reproach! Comfort in all long-suffering and teaching!
2TI 4:3 For there will be a time when they will not endure healthy teaching, but according to their own desires they will accumulate to themselves teachers tickling the hearing.
2TI 4:4 And from hearing indeed the truth, they shall turn away, and shall be turned aside unto the fables.
2TI 4:5 But you be sober in all things! Suffer hardships! Do the work of an evangelist! Of your service have full assurance!
2TI 4:6 For I already am offered as a libation, and the time of my separation stands by.
2TI 4:7 The good struggle I have struggled; the race I have finished; the belief I have kept.
2TI 4:8 Remaining reserved for me is the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the just judge will recompense to me in that day; and not only to me, but also to all the ones loving his grandeur.
2TI 4:9 Hurry to come to me quickly!
2TI 4:10 For Demas abandoned me, having loved the present eon, and is gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
2TI 4:11 Luke is alone with me. Having taken up Mark, bring him with yourself; for he is useful to me in service!
2TI 4:12 And Tychicus I sent to Ephesus.
2TI 4:13 The hooded cloak which I left in Troas with Carpus, when coming bring, and the scrolls, especially the parchments!
2TI 4:14 Alexander the brazier demonstrated many bad things against me. May the Lord render to him according to his works -
2TI 4:15 whom you also watch out for! For exceedingly he has opposed our words.
2TI 4:16 In my first defense no one came together with me, but all abandoned me. May it not be imputed against them.
2TI 4:17 But the Lord stood by me, and empowered me; that through me the proclamation should be fully assured, and all the nations should hear. And I was rescued from out of the mouth of the lion.
2TI 4:18 And the Lord shall rescue me from every evil work, and shall preserve me for his heavenly kingdom; to whom be the glory into the eons of the eons. Amen.
2TI 4:19 Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus!
2TI 4:20 Erastus stayed in Corinth, but Trophimus I left in Miletus sick.
2TI 4:21 Hurry before winter to come! Eubulus greets you, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers.
2TI 4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Favor be with you. Amen.
TIT 1:1 Paul, a bondman of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for belief of the chosen of God, and full knowledge of truth according to piety;
TIT 1:2 unto the hope of life eternal, which the God incapable of falsehood promised before times eternal;
TIT 1:3 but manifested in his own times - his word by proclamation, which I was entrusted with according to command of God our deliverer.
TIT 1:4 To Titus, genuine child according to our common belief; favor, mercy, peace, from God the father and the Lord Jesus Christ our deliverer.
TIT 1:5 For this favor I left you in Crete, that the things missing you should correct, and should place in every city 1elders, as I set in order for you to do.
TIT 1:6 If anyone is without reproach, husband of one wife, having trustworthy children, not with a charge of carnality or unsubmissiveness.
TIT 1:7 For it is necessary the overseer to be without reproach, as God's manager; not self-willed, not prone to anger, not intemperate in the use of wine, not a brawler, not profiting through vice;
TIT 1:8 but hospitable, a friend of good men, discreet, just, sacred, self-controlled;
TIT 1:9 holding to the trustworthy word according to the teaching, that he might be able both to encourage in the sound teaching, and to reprove the ones disputing.
TIT 1:10 For there are many unsubmissive and vain talkers and mind-deceivers, especially the ones of the circumcision.
TIT 1:11 Whom it is necessary to muzzle, who upset entire houses, teaching what they must not, for favor of shameful gain.
TIT 1:12 There said a certain one of them, a prophet of their own, saying, Cretans continually are liars, evil wild beasts, idle bellies.
TIT 1:13 This testimony is true; for which reason reprove them severely! that they should be sound in the belief;
TIT 1:14 not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, turning away from the truth.
TIT 1:15 All things indeed are pure to the pure. But to the ones being defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.
TIT 1:16 They acknowledge to know God; but in the works they deny him, being abominable, and resisting persuasion, and rejected to every good work.
TIT 2:1 But you speak what is becoming for sound instruction!
TIT 2:2 Old men are to be sober, serious, discreet, being sound in the belief, in the love, in the endurance.
TIT 2:3 Old women likewise, with a consecrated character, not slanderers, not being enslaved to much wine, teachers of virtue;
TIT 2:4 that the young women are to be of a sound mind, to be ones loving their husbands, ones fond of children,
TIT 2:5 discreet, pure, housekeepers, good, ones being submitted to their own husbands, that the word of God should not be blasphemed.
TIT 2:6 The younger men likewise enjoin to be of a sound mind!
TIT 2:7 In all things making yourself a model of good works; in the teaching having integrity, seriousness, incorruptibility,
TIT 2:8 sound word, not open to condemnation; that the one at opposite should be ashamed, having nothing heedless to say concerning us.
TIT 2:9 Bondmen are to be submitted to their own masters! in everything to be well-pleasing, not disputing,
TIT 2:10 not pilfering, but demonstrating all good belief; that the teaching of God our deliverer should be adorned in all things.
TIT 2:11 For the favor of God appeared - the deliverance to all men;
TIT 2:12 and correcting us, that denying impiety and the worldly desires, that sanely, and righteously, and piously, we should live in the present eon;
TIT 2:13 awaiting the blessed hope, and grandeur of the glory of the great God and our deliverer Jesus Christ;
TIT 2:14 who gave himself for us, that he should ransom us from all lawlessness, and should cleanse to himself a prized people, zealous of good works.
TIT 2:15 These things speak, and encourage, and reprove with all command! Let no one speculate about you!
TIT 3:1 Remind them to submit to sovereignties and authorities, to yield obedience, to be prepared for every good work,
TIT 3:2 to blaspheme no one, to not be quarrelsome, but lenient, demonstrating all gentleness to all men!
TIT 3:3 For we were at some time or other also ourselves unthinking, resisting persuasion, erring, being a slave to desires and various satisfactions, leading in evil and envy, odious, detesting one another.
TIT 3:4 And when the graciousness and the humane treatment appeared of God our deliverer,
TIT 3:5 not from works in righteousness which we did, but according to his mercy he delivered us, through the bath of regeneration, and renewal of holy spirit;
TIT 3:6 which he poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our deliverer;
TIT 3:7 that having been justified by that favor, we should be heirs according to a hope of life eternal.
TIT 3:8 Trustworthy is the word; and concerning these things I want you to positively assert, that the ones trusting in God should be thoughtful to be set over good works. These are the good and beneficial things to men.
TIT 3:9 But moronish inquiries, and genealogies, and strifes, and legal battles, stand off from! for they are unprofitable and vain.
TIT 3:10 A heretical man, after one and a second admonition, refuse!
TIT 3:11 knowing that such a one is distorted, and sins, being self-condemned.
TIT 3:12 Whenever I should send forth Artemas to you, or Tychicus, hurry to come to me in Nicopolis! for there I have decided to pass the winter.
TIT 3:13 Zenas the legal expert and Apollos diligently send forward, that nothing should be missing to them!
TIT 3:14 But let also the ones of ours learn to be set over good works for the important needs, that they should not be unfruitful!
TIT 3:15 All the ones with me greet you. You greet the ones being fond of us in belief! Favor be with you all. Amen.
PHM 1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy the brother, to Philemon the beloved, and our fellow-worker,
PHM 1:2 and to Apphia the beloved, and Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the assembly at your house.
PHM 1:3 Favor to you, and peace from God our father and of the Lord Jesus Christ.
PHM 1:4 I give thanks to my God at all times making mention of you at my prayers,
PHM 1:5 hearing of your love, and the belief which you have towards the Lord Jesus, and to all the sanctified ones;
PHM 1:6 that the fellowship of your belief should become active in full knowledge of every good work in you in Christ Jesus.
PHM 1:7 For we have much gratitude and comfort over your love, because the feelings of compassion of the sanctified ones has been rested through you, O brother.
PHM 1:8 Therefore, having a great openness in Christ, to give orders to you about the related thing,
PHM 1:9 I appeal rather through the love, being such a one as Paul an old man, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
PHM 1:10 I appeal to you concerning my child, whom I engendered in my bonds - Onesimus;
PHM 1:11 the one at some time or other useless to you, but now useful to you and to me, whom I sent back to you.
PHM 1:12 But you, ( that is for him, ) receive the things concerning my feelings of compassion;
PHM 1:13 whom I wanted to keep for myself, that for you he should be serving to me in the bonds of the good news!
PHM 1:14 But without the help of your opinion I wanted to do nothing; that your good should not be as according to necessity, but as voluntary.
PHM 1:15 For perhaps on account of this he was separated for an hour, that you should receive him eternal;
PHM 1:16 no longer as a bondman, but above a bondman, a beloved brother, especially to me; and how much more to you, both in flesh, and in the Lord.
PHM 1:17 If then you have me for a partner, receive him as me!
PHM 1:18 And if in anything he wronged you, or owes, charge this to me!
PHM 1:19 I Paul write in my hand. I will pay (for I should not say to you that even you yourself owes me besides.)
PHM 1:20 Yes, O brother, may I oblige you in the Lord; rest my feelings of compassion in the Lord!
PHM 1:21 Relying upon your obedience, I wrote to you, knowing that even above what I say you will do.
PHM 1:22 But at the same time also prepare for me a guest room! For I hope that through your prayers I shall be granted to you.
PHM 1:23 They greet you - Epaphras, my fellow-captive in Christ Jesus;
PHM 1:24 Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers.
PHM 1:25 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
HEB 1:1 In various parts and in various ways earlier, God, having spoken to the fathers by the prophets,
HEB 1:2 in these last days spoke to us by the son, whom he established heir of all things, through whom also he made the eons;
HEB 1:3 who being the radiance of the glory, and impression of his essence, and bearing the whole by the word of his power, by himself making a cleansing of our sins, sat at the right of the greatness in heights;
HEB 1:4 having become so much better than the angels, he has inherited a name as much more diverse from them.
HEB 1:5 For to whom said he at some time or other of the angels, You are my son, I today engendered you? And again, I will be to him for father, and he will be to me for son.
HEB 1:6 and again whenever he should bring in the first-born into the inhabitable world, he says, And let all angels of God do obeisance to him!
HEB 1:7 And indeed to the angels he says, The one making his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
HEB 1:8 But to the son, saying Your throne, O God, into the eon of the eon. A rod of uprightness is the rod of your kingdom.
HEB 1:9 You loved righteousness, and detested lawlessness; on account of this God your God anointed you with oil of exultation above your partakers.
HEB 1:10 And, saying, You according to beginnings, O Lord, laid the foundation of the earth; and the works of your hands are the heavens.
HEB 1:11 They shall perish; but you abide; and all as a garment shall grow old;
HEB 1:12 and as a wrap-around garment, you shall coil them, and they shall be changed. But you are the same, and your years shall not fail.
HEB 1:13 And to which of the angels said he at some time or other? Sit down at my right, until whenever I should put your enemies as a footstool of your feet!
HEB 1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits, being sent in service on account of the ones being about to inherit deliverance?
HEB 2:1 On account of this it is necessary more exceedingly for us to heed to the things heard, lest at any time we flow away.
HEB 2:2 For if the word being spoken through angels became firm, and every violation and disobedience received just payment;
HEB 2:3 how shall we flee neglecting such a deliverance; which in the beginning receiving, being spoken by the Lord, was firmed up in us by the ones hearing him;
HEB 2:4 God bearing witness with both signs and miracles, and various works of power, and distributions of holy spirit, according to his volition?
HEB 2:5 For not to angels he submitted the inhabitable world about to be, concerning of which we speak.
HEB 2:6 But one testified somewhere saying, What is man, that you remember him? or a son of man that you visit him?
HEB 2:7 You lessened him some a little than the angels; with glory and honor you crowned him, and established him over the works of your hands.
HEB 2:8 All things you submitted underneath his feet. For in the submitting to him all things, he left nothing unsubmissive to him. But now not yet do we see all things being submitted to him.
HEB 2:9 But we see Jesus being lessened a little than the angels, on account of the suffering of death, being crowned with glory and honor; that by favor of God he should taste death for all.
HEB 2:10 For it was becoming to him, (through whom is the whole, and of whom is the whole,) for leading many sons in glory, to perfect the head of their deliverance through sufferings.
HEB 2:11 For both the one sanctifying and the ones being sanctified are all of one. For which reason he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
HEB 2:12 saying, I will report your name to my brothers; in the midst of the assembly I will sing praise to you.
HEB 2:13 And again, I will be yielding upon him. And again, Behold I and the children which God gave to me.
HEB 2:14 Since then the children have participated of flesh and blood, also he closely partook of the same; that through death he should cease the work having the might of death, that is to say - the devil;
HEB 2:15 and should dismiss those, as many as by fear of death on account of all of the living, were liable of servitude.
HEB 2:16 For not in any way does he take hold of angels; but the seed of Abraham he takes hold of.
HEB 2:17 Whereupon he owed in all things to be likened to the brothers, that he should become a merciful and trustworthy chief priest in the things towards God, so as to atone the sins of the people.
HEB 2:18 For in that he suffered himself, having been tested, he is able to help the ones being tested.
HEB 3:1 Whereupon, holy brothers, partakers of the heavenly calling, contemplate the apostle and chief priest of our acknowledgment offering - Christ Jesus!
HEB 3:2 being trustworthy to the one appointing him, as also Moses in all his house.
HEB 3:3 For this one has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, on account of as much as the one carefully preparing the house has more honor than the house.
HEB 3:4 For every house is carefully prepared by someone; but the one carefully preparing the whole is God.
HEB 3:5 And Moses indeed was trustworthy in all his house, as an attendant, for a testimony of the things going to be spoken;
HEB 3:6 but Christ as a son over his house, whose house are we, if indeed the confidence and the boasting of the hope we should hold firm until the end.
HEB 3:7 Therefore, (as the holy spirit says, Today, if you should hearken to his voice,
HEB 3:8 you should not harden your hearts as in the embittering, in the day of the test in the wilderness;
HEB 3:9 of which place your fathers tested me, tried me, and beheld my works forty years.
HEB 3:10 Therefore I loathed that generation, and said, Continually they err in the heart; and they knew not my ways.
HEB 3:11 As I swore by an oath in my wrath, Shall they enter into my rest?)
HEB 3:12 take heed, brothers, lest at any time there shall be in some of you a wicked unbelief in heart, in the separating from the living God.
HEB 3:13 But encourage yourselves according to each day, as long as of which it is called today; that you should not be hardened, any of you, by any deception of sin.
HEB 3:14 For we have become partakers of the Christ, if indeed the beginning of the support we should hold firm until the end,
HEB 3:15 as in the saying, Today if you should hearken to his voice, you should not harden your hearts, as in the embittering.
HEB 3:16 For some having heard, rebelled - even not all the ones coming forth out of Egypt with Moses.
HEB 3:17 And to whom did he loathe forty years? Was it not to the ones having sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
HEB 3:18 And to whom did he swear by an oath to not to enter into his rest, unless to the ones resisting persuasion?
HEB 3:19 And we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.
HEB 4:1 We should fear then, lest at any time, being left behind of the promise to enter into his rest, any of you should seem to fail.
HEB 4:2 For even we are being announced good news, just as those also. But the word of the report did not benefit those, not being mixed together in the belief to the ones having heard.
HEB 4:3 For we entering into the rest, the ones having believed, as he has said, As I swore by an oath in my wrath, shall they enter into my rest? And yet the works from the founding of the world were taking place.
HEB 4:4 For he has said somewhere concerning the seventh day, thus, And God rested in the seventh day from all his works.
HEB 4:5 And in this place again, Shall they enter into my rest?
HEB 4:6 Since then it leaves some to enter into it, and the ones prior having been announced did not enter because of disobedience;
HEB 4:7 again a certain day he confirms, Today, saying in David, after so great a time; as it has been said, Today if you should hearken to his voice, you should not harden your hearts.
HEB 4:8 For if Joshua gave them rest, then he would not speak concerning another day after these things.
HEB 4:9 Then there is left a sabbath rest to the people of God.
HEB 4:10 For the one entering into his rest, himself also rested from his works, as God from his own.
HEB 4:11 We should hurry then to enter into that rest, lest anyone should fall in the same example of disobedience.
HEB 4:12 For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any double-edged sword, and penetrating as far as the distribution of both soul and spirit, also of joints and marrows, and is a discerner of the thinking and reflections of the heart.
HEB 4:13 And there is not a creation unapparent before him; but all are naked and laid bare to his eyes to whom the reckoning is to us.
HEB 4:14 Having then a great chief priest, having gone through the heavens, (Jesus the son of God,) let us keep the acknowledgment offering.
HEB 4:15 For not do we have a chief priest not being able to sympathize in our weaknesses; but one having been tested in all things according to our likeness, separate from sin.
HEB 4:16 Let us come forward then with confidence to the throne of favor, that we should receive mercy, and should find favor for opportune help.
HEB 5:1 For every chief priest being taken from among men, is established for men in the things for God, that he should offer both gift offerings and sacrifices for sin offerings;
HEB 5:2 being able to moderate emotions with the ones being ignorant and erring, since also he is encompassed with weakness.
HEB 5:3 And on account of this he ought, as concerning the people, so also concerning himself to offer for sins.
HEB 5:4 And not to himself does anyone take the honor, but the one being called by God, just as Aaron.
HEB 5:5 Thus also the Christ did not glorify himself to become chief priest; but the one saying to him, You are my son, I today have engendered you.
HEB 5:6 As also in another place he says, You are a priest into the eon according to the order of Melchisedek.
HEB 5:7 Who in the days of his flesh offered both supplications and earnest entreaties to the one being able to deliver him from death, with a strong cry and having offered tears, and was listened to because of his veneration;
HEB 5:8 though being a son, he learned obedience from what he suffered.
HEB 5:9 And having been perfected, he became to all the ones obeying him the reason of eternal deliverance;
HEB 5:10 having been addressed by God as chief priest according to the order of Melchisedek.
HEB 5:11 Concerning of whom our word is much and difficult in interpretation to speak, since you have become dull in the hearings.
HEB 5:12 For though you ought to be teachers because of the time, again you have need of one to teach you what are the elements of the beginning of the oracles of God; and you have become having need of milk, and not of solid nourishment.
HEB 5:13 For every one partaking of milk is inexperienced of the word of righteousness; for he is an infant.
HEB 5:14 But solid nourishment is for full grown, even of the ones through the manner of having the senses exercised for the distinction of both good and evil.
HEB 6:1 Therefore having left the matter of the beginning of the Christ, we should bear on unto the perfection, (not casting down again a foundation) of repentance from dead works, and of belief upon God,
HEB 6:2 of the teaching of immersions, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.
HEB 6:3 And this we shall do, if indeed God should permit.
HEB 6:4 For it is impossible of the ones once enlightened, having tasted also of the heavenly gift, and becoming partakers of holy spirit,
HEB 6:5 and having tasted the good word of God, and of powers of the eon about to be,
HEB 6:6 and having fallen, again to renew to repentance; crucifying again to themselves the son of God, and making an example of him.
HEB 6:7 For the earth having drunk the rain coming often upon it, and giving birth to fit pasturage for those through whom also it is cultivated, shares of the blessing from God.
HEB 6:8 But that bringing forth thorn-bushes and thistles is rejected, and near to a curse, whose end is for burning.
HEB 6:9 But we are persuaded concerning you, beloved, of better things, and having deliverance, if even thus we speak.
HEB 6:10 For God is not unjust to forget your work and the toil of the love, which you demonstrated in his name, having served to the sanctified ones, and still serving.
HEB 6:11 But we desire each of you to demonstrate the same diligence to the full assurance of the hope as far as until the end.
HEB 6:12 That you should not become dull, but imitators of the ones through belief and long-suffering are inheriting the promises.
HEB 6:13 For to Abraham God having promised, since according to no one had he greater to swear an oath by, swore an oath according to himself,
HEB 6:14 saying, Assuredly blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you.
HEB 6:15 And thus, having been long-suffering, he succeeded in the promise.
HEB 6:16 For men indeed swear an oath by the greater, and the oath is an end for security in all disputes to them.
HEB 6:17 In which God more extra wanting to display to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, mediated by an oath.
HEB 6:18 That through two immutable things, (in which it was impossible for God to lie,) we should have strong consolation taking refuge to hold to the hope situated before us.
HEB 6:19 Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both safe and firm, and entering into the inner veil;
HEB 6:20 where as forerunner for us, Jesus entered according to the order of Melchisedek, becoming chief priest into the eon.
HEB 7:1 For this Melchisedek, king of Salem, priest of God the highest, (the one having met with Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and having blessed him,
HEB 7:2 to whom also Abraham portioned a tenth of all;) first indeed being translated king of righteousness, and thereupon also king of Salem, which is king of peace;
HEB 7:3 fatherless, motherless, of unknown genealogy, neither beginning of days, nor having an end of life, and taking an exact image to the son of God; abides a priest for perpetuity.
HEB 7:4 And view how great this one was, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave even a tenth of the choice parts.
HEB 7:5 And indeed the ones of the sons of Levi, receiving the priesthood, have a commandment to tithe the people according to the law, that is to say, the ones of their brothers, though they are ones having come forth from out of the loin of Abraham.
HEB 7:6 But the one not tracing descent from them received a tenth from Abraham, and has blessed the one having the promises.
HEB 7:7 But separate from all dispute, the lesser is blessed by the better.
HEB 7:8 And here indeed men die who receive tenths; but there receives one witnessed of that he lives.
HEB 7:9 And, as literally to speak, through Abraham even Levi the one receiving tenths pays a tenth.
HEB 7:10 For he was still in the loin of the father when Melchisedek met with him.
HEB 7:11 If indeed then perfection were through the Levitical priesthood ( for the people established law upon it, ) what still need was there for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchisedek, and not to be called according to the order of Aaron?
HEB 7:12 For the priesthood being transposed, from necessity also a transposition of law takes place.
HEB 7:13 For of whom are said these things, partakes of another tribe, from which no one has given attention to the altar.
HEB 7:14 For it is exposed to view that our Lord has risen from out of Judah, for which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood.
HEB 7:15 And more extra still it is quite evident, since according to the likeness of Melchisedek another priest arises,
HEB 7:16 who not according to the law of fleshly commandment exists, but according to the power of an indissoluble life.
HEB 7:17 For he testifies, that, You are a priest into the eon according to the order of Melchisedek.
HEB 7:18 For indeed an annulment of the commandment before takes place because of its weak and unprofitable state;
HEB 7:19 for the law perfected nothing, but there is the further introduction of a better hope through which we approach to God.
HEB 7:20 And according to as much as not separate from the swearing of an oath he was made priest
HEB 7:21 (for indeed the ones separate from swearing of an oath are become priests, but the one with swearing of an oath through the saying as to him, The Lord swore by an oath, and will not change his mind; you are a priest into the eon according to the order of Melchisedek.)
HEB 7:22 Jesus has become surety by so much of a better covenant.
HEB 7:23 And indeed, there are more priests being restrained from remaining on account of death;
HEB 7:24 but he, because of his abiding into the eon, has the inviolable priesthood.
HEB 7:25 From where he is able even to deliver totally the ones coming forward through him to God, at all times living to intercede for them.
HEB 7:26 For such a chief priest becomes us - sacred, guileless, undefiled, being separated from sinners, and becoming higher than the heavens;
HEB 7:27 who has not had a daily necessity, as the chief priests, prior to offer sacrifices for their own sins, and thereupon for the sins of the people. For this he did once for all, having offered himself.
HEB 7:28 For the law ordains men chief priests, ones having weakness; but the word of the swearing of an oath, the one after the law, has perfected a son into the eon.
HEB 8:1 But the total sum upon the things being spoken is - we have such a chief priest, one who sat at the right of the throne of the greatness in the heavens,
HEB 8:2 a minister of the holies, and of the true tent, which the Lord pitched, and not man.
HEB 8:3 For every chief priest is ordained for the act of offering both gifts and sacrifices. Whereupon it is important even this one to have something which he should offer.
HEB 8:4 For if indeed he was upon the earth, not even would he be a priest, there being the priests of the ones offering the gifts according to the law;
HEB 8:5 who serve the example and shadow of the heavenlies, as Moses was divinely instructed being about to complete the tent. For, See, says he, you shall make all things according to the model having been shown to you on the mountain.
HEB 8:6 But now a more diverse ministration he has attained, in as much as also he is mediator of a better covenant, which is established upon better promises.
HEB 8:7 For if that first covenant was blameless, there would not be sought place for a second.
HEB 8:8 For complaining against them, he says, Behold, days come, says the Lord, and I will complete upon the house of Israel and upon the house of Judah a new covenant.
HEB 8:9 Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day of my taking hold of their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they adhered not to my covenant, and I neglected them, says the Lord.
HEB 8:10 But this is the covenant which I will ordain with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord; imputing my laws into their mind, and I will inscribe them upon their hearts. And I will be to them for God, and they will be to me for a people.
HEB 8:11 And in no way should each teach his neighbor, nor each his brother, saying, Know the Lord! For all shall know me, from their small unto their great.
HEB 8:12 For I will be kind to their unrighteousness, and their sins and of their lawless deeds in no way should I remember any more.
HEB 8:13 In the saying, New, he has made the first old. And the one being old and growing old is near extinction.
HEB 9:1 The first tent had indeed then also ordinances of service, and the worldly holy place.
HEB 9:2 For the first tent was carefully prepared, in which was both lamp-stand and the table, and the place setting of the breads, which is called holy;
HEB 9:3 and after the second veil, a tent, being called holy of holies;
HEB 9:4 having a golden incense pan, and the ark of the covenant having been covered over on all sides with gold, in which was the golden jar having the manna, and the rod of Aaron having burst forth, and the tablets of the covenant;
HEB 9:5 and up above it were the cherubim of glory shading the atonement-seat; concerning which it is not for now to speak in turn.
HEB 9:6 And of these things thus being carefully prepared, the priests always enter indeed into the first tent, completing the services.
HEB 9:7 But into the second part the chief priest went in alone once a year, not without blood, which he offers for himself, and the ignorance sacrifices for the people.
HEB 9:8 This manifesting of the holy spirit not yet has been made apparent while still the first tent was having a position of the way of the holies.
HEB 9:9 Which is a parable in the time being present, in which both gifts and sacrifices are offered, not being able as to conscience to perfect the one serving;
HEB 9:10 consisting only in foods and drinks, and diverse immersions, and ordinances of flesh, until a time of straightening rests.
HEB 9:11 But Christ being come is chief priest of the good things about to be, through the greater and more perfect tent, not made by hand - that is to say, not of this creation;
HEB 9:12 nor through the blood of he-goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered once for all into the holies, having found an eternal ransoming.
HEB 9:13 For if the blood of bulls and he-goats, and ashes of a heifer sprinkling the ones being unclean, sanctifies for the cleanliness of the flesh,
HEB 9:14 how much more the blood of the Christ, (who through eternal spirit offered himself unblemished to God,) shall cleanse your conscience from dead works for serving the living God.
HEB 9:15 And because of this he is mediator of a new covenant, so that death having taken place, for the release by ransom of the violations unto the first covenant, was so the ones having been called should receive of the promise of the eternal inheritance.
HEB 9:16 For where there is a will covenant., it is a necessity for the death of the one ordaining the will to come to bear.
HEB 9:17 For a will with the dead is firm; since not at any time does it prevail when the one ordaining the will lives.
HEB 9:18 Whereupon neither the first covenant has been dedicated separate from blood.
HEB 9:19 For every commandment having been spoken according to the law by Moses to all the people, having taken the blood of the calves and he-goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, both itself the scroll, and all the people he sprinkled,
HEB 9:20 saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God gave charge to you.
HEB 9:21 But also the tent, and all the utensils of the ministration, with blood in like manner he sprinkled.
HEB 9:22 And nearly all things are cleansed with blood according to the law; and separate from blood-letting there becomes not a release.
HEB 9:23 It was a necessity then for indeed the examples of the things in the heavens to be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
HEB 9:24 For not into hand made holy places the Christ entered, which are antitypes of the true; but into heaven itself, now to be revealed to the face of God for us.
HEB 9:25 Nor that he should often offer himself, as the chief priest enters into the holy places yearly with another's blood;
HEB 9:26 since it would have been necessary for him to often suffer from the founding of the world. But now once at the completion of the eons, for annulment of sin, he has been manifested through his sacrifice.
HEB 9:27 And for as much as it has been reserved to men once to die, but after this the judgment;
HEB 9:28 so also the Christ once having been offered for bearing the sins of many, that of a second time separate from sin he shall appear to the ones awaiting him for deliverance.
HEB 10:1 For the law having a shadow of the good things about to be, is not itself the very image of the things which they offer yearly with the same sacrifices in perpetuity, and at no time is able to perfect the ones coming forward;
HEB 10:2 since they would not have ceased to be offered. On account of the ones serving once being cleansed have nothing any longer of a conscience of sins;
HEB 10:3 but in these there is a remembrance of sins yearly.
HEB 10:4 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and of he-goats to remove sins.
HEB 10:5 Therefore entering into the world, he says, Sacrifice and offering you wanted not, but a body you readied for me.
HEB 10:6 Whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin you thought not well of.
HEB 10:7 Then I said, Behold, I come (in the roll of the scroll it has been written concerning me,) to do, O God, your will.
HEB 10:8 By earlier saying that, Sacrifice and offering and whole burnt offerings and for sin offerings you wanted not, nor think well of (which are offered according to the law;)
HEB 10:9 then he said, Behold, I come to do, O God, your will. In this he does away with the first, that the second should be established.
HEB 10:10 By which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
HEB 10:11 And indeed every priest stands daily officiating and offering the same sacrifices often, which at no time are able to remove sins.
HEB 10:12 But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins in perpetuity, sat at the right of God;
HEB 10:13 for the remaining time looking out until his enemies be placed as a footstool of his feet.
HEB 10:14 For by one offering he has perfected in perpetuity the ones having been sanctified.
HEB 10:15 And the holy spirit bears witness to us also. For after he describes beforehand,
HEB 10:16 This is the covenant which I will ordain with them after those days, says the Lord, putting my laws upon their hearts; and upon their thoughts I will inscribe them;
HEB 10:17 and their sins and their lawless deeds in no way shall I remember any longer.
HEB 10:18 But where there is a release of these, there is no longer an offering for sin.
HEB 10:19 Having then, brothers, confidence for the entrance into the holies by the blood of Jesus,
HEB 10:20 which he dedicated to us a way newly made and living, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
HEB 10:21 and having a great priest over the house of God;
HEB 10:22 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of belief, with hearts being sprinkled from a wicked conscience, and the body being bathed with clean water.
HEB 10:23 Let us hold fast the acknowledgment offering of the hope unwavering! For trustworthy is the one promising.
HEB 10:24 And let us mind one another for stimulating love and good works;
HEB 10:25 not abandoning the assemblage of ourselves, as the custom with some; but encouraging one another; and by so much more, as much as you see the day approaching!
HEB 10:26 For where voluntarily we sin after receiving the full knowledge of the truth, no longer is left a sacrifice for sins;
HEB 10:27 but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a zealous fire being about to devour the adversaries.
HEB 10:28 Anyone disregarding the law of Moses dies without the help of compassions upon the testimony of two or three witnesses.
HEB 10:29 Of how much do you think worse shall he be worthy of punishment - the one having trampled the son of God, and esteeming the blood of the covenant as common, in which he was sanctified, and having insulted the spirit of favor?
HEB 10:30 For we know the one having said, Punishment is mine, I will recompense, says the Lord. And again, saying, The Lord will judge his people.
HEB 10:31 It is fearful to fall into the hands of the living God.
HEB 10:32 But call to mind the prior days, in which, having been enlightened, you endured much conflict of sufferings;
HEB 10:33 this indeed, being made a public spectacle both in scornings and afflictions; and this - having become partners of the ones thus behaving in being scorned.
HEB 10:34 For both in my bonds you sympathized, and the seizure of your possessions with joy you accepted, knowing to have in yourselves a better possession in heavens, and abiding.
HEB 10:35 Do not throw off then your confidence, which has great payment.
HEB 10:36 For you have need of endurance, that having done the will of God, you should receive the promise, saying,
HEB 10:37 For yet a little while, the one coming shall come, and will not delay.
HEB 10:38 But the just one shall live from belief; and if he keeps back, my soul takes not pleasure in him.
HEB 10:39 But we are not keeping back to destruction; but of belief for a procurement of life.
HEB 11:1 And belief is the reality of hoping of things, the proof not being seen.
HEB 11:2 For in this the elders were borne witness to.
HEB 11:3 By belief we comprehend the eons to be fashioned by the word of God, so that not of things appearing take place the things seen.
HEB 11:4 By belief Abel offered a greater sacrifice than Cain to God, by which he bore witness to be just, by God testifying over his gifts; and through it having died still speaks.
HEB 11:5 By belief Enoch was transposed to not know death; and was not found, for God transposed him. For before his transposition he bore witness, to have been well-pleasing to God.
HEB 11:6 But apart from belief it is impossible to well-please. For it is necessary for the one coming forward to God to believe that he is; and to the ones seeking after him he becomes a paymaster.
HEB 11:7 By belief Noah having received a divine message concerning the things not as yet being seen, showing reverence, carefully prepared the ark for deliverance of his house; by which he condemned the world, and of the thing according to belief he became heir of righteousness.
HEB 11:8 By belief, Abraham being called, obeyed to go forth unto the place which he was about to receive for an inheritance; and he went forth, not having knowledge of where he went.
HEB 11:9 By belief he sojourned in the land of the promise, as an alien, in tents dwelling with Isaac and Jacob, the joint-heirs of the same promise.
HEB 11:10 For he looked out for the city having foundations, of which the craftsman and engineer is God.
HEB 11:11 By belief also Sarah herself received power for founding seed, and past the time of vigor gave birth, since believing she esteemed the one promising.
HEB 11:12 Therefore also from one they were born, (and these were as deadened,) as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as the sand by the edge of the sea is innumerable.
HEB 11:13 According to belief these all died, not receiving the promises, but at a distance beholding them, and being persuaded, and greeting, and acknowledging that they are strangers and immigrants upon the earth.
HEB 11:14 For the ones saying such things reveal that they anxiously seek the fatherland.
HEB 11:15 And if indeed, those remembering from where they came forth from, they had even time to return.
HEB 11:16 But now a better thing they reach for, that is to say, a heavenly. Therefore God is not ashamed of them to be called their God. For he prepared for them a city.
HEB 11:17 By belief Abraham offered Isaac, being tested, and the one receiving the promises offered up the only child,
HEB 11:18 towards whom it was said that, In Isaac a seed shall be called to you;
HEB 11:19 considering that God was able to raise even from the dead; from where he received him even in parable.
HEB 11:20 By belief concerning things about to be Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
HEB 11:21 By belief Jacob dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and did obeisance upon the tip of his cane.
HEB 11:22 By belief Joseph, coming to an end, made mention concerning the exodus of the sons of Israel; and gave charge concerning his bones.
HEB 11:23 By belief Moses, having been born, was hid three months by his fathers, for they saw the child as fair; and they feared not the edict of the king.
HEB 11:24 By belief Moses, having become great, denied to be called son of Pharoah's daughter,
HEB 11:25 rather it being good to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to have temporary enjoyment in sins;
HEB 11:26 esteeming the scorning of the anointed greater riches than the treasures in Egypt; for he looked away to the payment.
HEB 11:27 By belief he left Egypt, not fearing the rage of the king; for as seeing the unseen he persevered.
HEB 11:28 By belief he observed the passover, and the pouring of the blood, lest the one annihilating the first-born should touch them.
HEB 11:29 By belief they passed over the red sea as through dry land; of which the Egyptians taking the attempt were swallowed down.
HEB 11:30 By belief the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for seven days.
HEB 11:31 By belief Rahab the harlot was not destroyed together with the ones having disobeyed, receiving the spies with peace.
HEB 11:32 And what yet say I? For it shall be deficient of me not describing the time concerning Gideon, Barak, and also Samson, and Jephthah; also David and Samuel, and the prophets;
HEB 11:33 who through belief conquered kingdoms, worked righteousness, succeeded in the promises, shut up mouths of lions,
HEB 11:34 extinguished the power of fire, fled the mouths of swords, were empowered from out of weakness, became strong in war, leaned the camps of aliens,
HEB 11:35 women received of a resurrection of their dead, and others were pounded, not accepting the release by ransom, that a better resurrection they should attain,
HEB 11:36 and others received a trial of mocking and of whips, and still of bonds and prison;
HEB 11:37 they were stoned, were sawn, were tested, died by murder of the sword, went around in sheepskins, in goat's skins, lacking, being afflicted, being mistreated;
HEB 11:38 (of whom the world was not worthy;) wandering in desolate places, and in mountains, and in caves, and the openings of the earth.
HEB 11:39 And these all testifying on account of the belief, while not receiving the promise,
HEB 11:40 having foreseen something better of God for us, that they should not be perfected separate from us.
HEB 12:1 Accordingly also, we having so great a cloud of witnesses encompassing us, having put aside every swelling and accessible sin, through endurance let us run the struggle being situated before us,
HEB 12:2 looking to Jesus the head and perfection of the belief; who instead of the joy being situated before him endured the cross, disdaining the shame, and at the right of the throne of God has sat.
HEB 12:3 For consider the cost by the one enduring such dispute against him by the sinners, that you should not weary fainting in your souls.
HEB 12:4 Not yet unto blood have you stood firm, struggling against sin.
HEB 12:5 And you have been totally forgotten of the exhortation, which he reasons to you as to sons, saying, O my son, do not have little regard for the instruction of the Lord, nor be enfeebled being reproved by him!
HEB 12:6 For whom the Lord loves he corrects, and whips every son whom he welcomes.
HEB 12:7 If you endure discipline, God brings discipline to you as sons. For who is the son whom a father does not correct?
HEB 12:8 And if you are without the help of instruction, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate, and not sons.
HEB 12:9 So then indeed, by the flesh of our fathers we have correctors, and we show respect. Shall we not be much more submitted to the father of the spirits, and shall live?
HEB 12:10 For they indeed for a few days, as it seemed good to them, corrected; but he does so for the advantage, for us to share in his sanctity.
HEB 12:11 But any discipline by indeed the hand does not seem to be joy, but distress. But afterwards it renders peaceable fruit of righteousness to the ones having been exercised by it.
HEB 12:12 Therefore the weakened hands and the disabled knees re-erect!
HEB 12:13 And make straight tracks to your feet, that the lame should not be turned aside; but rather should be healed!
HEB 12:14 Pursue peace with all, and the sanctification, (apart from which no one shall see the Lord;)
HEB 12:15 overseeing, lest any should lack from the favor of God; lest any root of bitterness germinating upward should be trouble, and through this many should be defiled;
HEB 12:16 lest there be any fornicator, or profane person as Esau, who for one portion of food delivered over his rights of the first-born!
HEB 12:17 For you understand that also afterwards, wanting to inherit the blessing, he was rejected. For a place was not found for repentance, (though with tears he sought it.)
HEB 12:18 For you have not come forward to the mountain being handled, and being kindled with fire, and to dimness, and to darkness, and to storm,
HEB 12:19 and to the trumpet's sound, and to the voice of utterances, of which the ones hearing asked pardon for the word to not proceed to them;
HEB 12:20 for they could not bear the giving of orders, saying, And if a beast should touch lightly upon the mountain, it shall be stoned, or shot with an arrow.
HEB 12:21 And so fearful was the visible display, Moses said, I am frightened and trembling.
HEB 12:22 But you have come forward to mount Zion, and the city of the living God, heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels,
HEB 12:23 to the festival and to the assembly of the first-born, having been registered in the heavens, and to God the judge of all, and to spirits of just ones having been perfected,
HEB 12:24 and Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, speaking better than the one of Abel.
HEB 12:25 Take heed that you should not refuse the one speaking! For if those did not flee escaping, refusing the one receiving a divine message upon earth, how much more we the ones turning away the one from heavens,
HEB 12:26 of whose voice the earth shook then. But now he has promised, saying, Still once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
HEB 12:27 And the saying, Still once more, manifests the transposition of the things being shaken, as things being made, that the things not being shaken should abide.
HEB 12:28 Therefore receiving a kingdom unshaken, we should have favor by which we should serve God pleasantly with respect and veneration.
HEB 12:29 For even our God is a consuming fire.
HEB 13:1 Let brotherly affection abide!
HEB 13:2 Let not hospitality be forgotten - for by this some were unaware having lodged angels!
HEB 13:3 Remember the prisoners, as ones being tied with them, the ones being mistreated, as also yourselves being in the body!
HEB 13:4 The wedding is esteemed in every way, and the marriage-bed undefiled. But fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
HEB 13:5 Let not loving money be the manner, but let being sufficient with the things at hand. For he himself has said, In no way will I forsake you, nor in any way will I abandon you.
HEB 13:6 So that taking courage we say, The Lord is to me a helper, and I will not be afraid what man shall do to me.
HEB 13:7 Remember the ones leading you, who spoke to you the word of God. Whom, contemplating the result of the behavior, you imitate the belief!
HEB 13:8 Jesus Christ yesterday and today the same, and into the eons.
HEB 13:9 Be not carried about by various and strange teachings! For it is a good thing to be firmed up in the heart with favor; not by foods, in which the ones walking derive not a benefit.
HEB 13:10 We have an altar, of which the ones serving the tent do not have authority to eat.
HEB 13:11 For those creatures whose blood is carried in for a sin offering into the holies by the chief priest, of these the bodies are incinerated outside the camp.
HEB 13:12 Therefore also Jesus, that he should sanctify the people by his own blood suffered outside the gate.
HEB 13:13 Therefore let us go forth to him outside the camp, bearing his scorn.
HEB 13:14 For we do not have here an abiding city, but we anxiously seek the one about to be.
HEB 13:15 By him then we should offer a sacrifice of praise at all times to God, that is to say, fruit of the lips of acknowledging to his name.
HEB 13:16 But of the well-doing and fellowship do not forget! For with such sacrifices God is well-pleased.
HEB 13:17 Comply with the ones leading you, and give precedence! For they are sleepless over your souls, for recompensing a reckoning, that with joy they should do this, and not moaning; for this would be unserviceable to you.
HEB 13:18 Pray for us! For we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, in all things wanting to behave well.
HEB 13:19 And more exceedingly I encourage you to do this, that more quickly I should be restored to you.
HEB 13:20 And the God of peace (leading the shepherd of the sheep from the dead, the great shepherd in the blood of the eternal covenant of our Lord Jesus Christ,)
HEB 13:21 ready you in every good work, for the doing the will of his; doing in you the thing well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ; to whom is the glory in the eons of the eons. Amen.
HEB 13:22 But I exhort you, brothers, endure the word of the exhortation! For also in short I wrote to you.
HEB 13:23 Know the brother Timothy having been released; with whom if he should come more quickly, I shall see you.
HEB 13:24 Greet all your leaders, and all the holy ones! The ones from Italy greet you.
HEB 13:25 Favor be with you all. Amen.
JAM 1:1 James, bondman of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion, hail!
JAM 1:2 Esteem it all joy, my brothers, whenever you should fall into various tests!
JAM 1:3 Knowing that the proving of the belief of yours manufactures endurance.
JAM 1:4 And let endurance have its perfect work, that you should be perfect and entire, with nothing missing!
JAM 1:5 And if anyone of you miss wisdom, let him ask, (of the giving to all God,) simply and not berating! and it shall be given to him.
JAM 1:6 But let him ask in belief, scrutinizing nothing! For the one scrutinizing is like a swell of the sea driven by wind and being blown about.
JAM 1:7 For let not that man imagine that he shall receive anything from the Lord!
JAM 1:8 For he is a double-minded man confused in all his ways.
JAM 1:9 But let the humble brother boast in his stature,
JAM 1:10 and the rich in his humiliation! For as the flower of grass he will pass away.
JAM 1:11 For the sun rose with the burning wind, and dried the grass, and its flower fell, and the beauty of its countenance perished; so also the rich one in his goings shall wither.
JAM 1:12 Blessed is a man who endures a test; for becoming unadulterated, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord promised to the ones loving him.
JAM 1:13 Let no one being tested say that, From God I am tested! For God is beyond testing by evils, and he himself tests no one.
JAM 1:14 But each is tested by his own desire, being dragged away and being entrapped.
JAM 1:15 So then the desire having conceived, gives birth to sin; but sin, being perpetrated, engenders death.
JAM 1:16 Do not be misled, my beloved brothers!
JAM 1:17 Every good portion and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the father of lights, of whom there is not an alteration or shaded circuit.
JAM 1:18 Willingly he engendered us by word of truth, for us being certain first-fruit of the ones of his creations.
JAM 1:19 So that, my beloved brothers, let every man be quick in the hearing, slow in the speaking, slow in anger!
JAM 1:20 For man's anger does not manufacture righteousness of God.
JAM 1:21 Therefore having put aside all filthiness and abundance of evil, in gentleness receive the implanted word, being able to deliver your souls!
JAM 1:22 But become doers of the word, and not only listeners, misleading yourselves!
JAM 1:23 For if any is a listener of the word, and not a doer, this one is like a man contemplating the face of his creation in a mirror;
JAM 1:24 for he contemplated himself, and went forth, and immediately forgot what he was like.
JAM 1:25 But the one having leaned over into the perfect law, the one of freedom, and remained - this one is not becoming a forgetful listener, but a doer of work, this one shall be blessed in his doing.
JAM 1:26 If anyone seems to be religious among you, and not bridling his tongue, but deceiving his heart, of this one religion is in vain.
JAM 1:27 Religion pure and undefiled before the God and father is this - to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself spotless from the world.
JAM 2:1 My brothers, have no discrimination in the belief of our Lord Jesus Christ, the one of glory!
JAM 2:2 For if a man should enter into your gathering wearing gold rings in bright attire, and there should enter also a poor man in filthy attire;
JAM 2:3 and you should look unto the one wearing the bright attire, and should say to him, You sit down here, well! And to the poor man you should say, You stand there! or, Sit down here under my footstool!
JAM 2:4 Then did you not discriminate among yourselves, and became judges of evil thoughts?
JAM 2:5 Hearken, my beloved brothers! Did not God choose the poor of this world, rich in belief, and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to the ones loving him?
JAM 2:6 But you dishonored the poor. Do not the rich tyrannize over you, and they draw you to judgment seats?
JAM 2:7 Do they not blaspheme the good name you are called by?
JAM 2:8 If however you fulfill the royal law according to the scripture - You shall love your neighbor as yourself; you do well.
JAM 2:9 But if you discriminate because of appearance, you practice sin, being reproved by the law as violators.
JAM 2:10 For whoever shall give heed to the entire law, but shall be at fault in one thing, has become liable of all.
JAM 2:11 For the one having said, You shall not commit adultery, said also, You shall not murder. But if you shall not commit adultery, but shall murder, you have become a violator of the law.
JAM 2:12 So speak, and so do, as by the law of freedom, being about to be judged!
JAM 2:13 For judgment is merciless to the one not having mercy, and mercy glories over judgment.
JAM 2:14 What is the benefit, my brothers, if anyone should say to have belief, but should not have works? Shall the belief be able to deliver him?
JAM 2:15 And if a brother or sister should be naked, and should be forsaken of the daily nourishment,
JAM 2:16 and anyone among you should say to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled! but does not give to them the things needful of the body - what is the benefit?
JAM 2:17 So also belief, if it should not have works it is dead by itself.
JAM 2:18 But one shall say, You have belief, and I have works. Show to me your belief from out of your works, and I will show to you from out of my works my belief!
JAM 2:19 You believe that God is one; you do well; even the demons believe and shudder.
JAM 2:20 But do you want to know, O vain man, that belief separate from works is dead?
JAM 2:21 Was not Abraham our Father justified by works, having offered Isaac his son upon the altar?
JAM 2:22 Do you see that belief was working together with his works, and by the works belief was perfected?
JAM 2:23 And the scripture was fulfilled, saying, And Abraham believed in God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness - and he was called friend of God.
JAM 2:24 See therefore that by works a man is justified, and not by belief only!
JAM 2:25 And in like manner also Rahab the harlot - was she not justified by works, welcoming the messengers, and putting them out by another way?
JAM 2:26 For as the body separate from spirit is dead, so also belief separate from works is dead.
JAM 3:1 Let there not be many teachers, my brothers, knowing that we shall receive greater judgment!
JAM 3:2 For many times we are at fault all together. If any in word is not at fault, this one is a perfect man, able to bridle even his entire body.
JAM 3:3 See! We put the bits into the mouths of the horses, for them to comply to us; and we lead around their entire body.
JAM 3:4 Behold, also the boats, being so great, and are being driven by harsh winds, yet are led around by the least size rudder, where even the thrust of the one straightening wills it to go.
JAM 3:5 So also the tongue is a small member, and brags. Behold, a little fire how much material it lights;
JAM 3:6 And the tongue is a fire - the world of unrighteousness. Thus the tongue is placed among our members, staining the entire body, and blazing the whirlwind of creation; and being set ablaze by Gehenna.
JAM 3:7 For every species of nature, both of wild beasts, and of birds, both of reptiles and marine life, is tamed, and has been tamed by the human nature.
JAM 3:8 But the tongue no one is able of men to tame; it is an unrestrained evil, full of poison causing death.
JAM 3:9 By it we bless God, and father; and by it we curse men, the ones born according to the likeness of God.
JAM 3:10 From out of the same mouth comes forth blessing and curse. It does not behoove us, my brothers, for these things so to be.
JAM 3:11 Does the spring gush from out of the same opening the sweet and the bitter?
JAM 3:12 Is the fig-tree able my brothers to produce olives? or a grapevine, figs? Thus not one spring is able to produce salty and sweet water.
JAM 3:13 Who is wise and intelligent among you? Let him show out of the good behavior his works in gentleness of wisdom!
JAM 3:14 But if you have bitter jealousy and contention in your heart, do not glory over and lie against the truth!
JAM 3:15 This is not the wisdom coming down from above, but earthly, physical, demoniacal.
JAM 3:16 For where there is jealousy and contention, there is commotion and every heedless thing.
JAM 3:17 But the wisdom from above first indeed is pure, thereupon peaceable, lenient, obeys readily, full of mercy and of good fruits, impartial, and unpretentious.
JAM 3:18 And fruit of righteousness in peace is sown to the ones making peace.
JAM 4:1 From where come wars and fights among you? is it not from here, from your pleasures soldiering in your members?
JAM 4:2 You desire, and you do not have. You murder, and are jealous, and are not able to succeed. You do combat and wage war, yet you have not, because you do not ask.
JAM 4:3 You ask, and do not receive, for wickedly you ask, that you should spend for your own pleasures.
JAM 4:4 Adulterers and adulteresses, know you not that the friendship of the world is hatred of God? Who ever therefore should want to be a friend of the world stands as enemy of God.
JAM 4:5 Or do you think that uselessly the scripture says, The spirit which dwells in us longs after with envy?
JAM 4:6 But he gives greater favor. Therefore he says, The LORD resists the proud, but to the humble he gives favor.
JAM 4:7 Be submitted then to God! Oppose the devil, and he will flee from you!
JAM 4:8 Approach to God, and he will approach unto you! Cleanse your hands, O sinners, and purify your hearts, O double-minded!
JAM 4:9 Languish and mourn and weep! Let your laughter be converted into mourning, and your joy into sadness!
JAM 4:10 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you!
JAM 4:11 Do not speak ill of one another, brothers! The one speaking ill of a brother, and judging his brother, speaks ill of the law, and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of law, but a judge.
JAM 4:12 There is one lawgiver being able to deliver and to destroy. But you, and who are you who judges the other?
JAM 4:13 Come now, O ones saying, Today and tomorrow we should go to thus the city, and we should spend there one year, and should trade, and should make gain;
JAM 4:14 you who know not the thing of tomorrow. For what is your life? For it shall be a vapor, appearing for a little, and thereupon disappearing.
JAM 4:15 Instead your saying should be, If the Lord should will, and we should live, then we should do this or that.
JAM 4:16 But now you boast in your ostentatiousness. All such boasting is wicked.
JAM 4:17 Knowing then to do good and not doing, it is sin to him.
JAM 5:1 Come now, O rich, weep shrieking over your miseries coming upon you!
JAM 5:2 Your riches are rotted, and your garments have become moth-eaten.
JAM 5:3 Your gold and silver is corroded; and their poison shall be for a testimony against you, and shall eat your flesh as fire. You treasured up in your last days.
JAM 5:4 Behold, the wage of the workers reaping your places. The one being deprived by you cries out. And the yells of the ones harvesting have entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.
JAM 5:5 You indulged upon the earth, and lived extravagantly; you maintained your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.
JAM 5:6 You condemned, you murdered; the just one does not resist against you.
JAM 5:7 Patiently wait then, brothers, until the arrival of the Lord! Behold, the farmer looks out for the precious fruit of the earth, patiently waiting for it, until whenever it should receive the early and late rain.
JAM 5:8 You also patiently wait! Establish your hearts! for the arrival of the Lord approaches.
JAM 5:9 Do not moan against one another, brothers, that you should not be judged! Behold, the judge stands before the doors.
JAM 5:10 Take for an example the evil suffering, my brothers, and the long-suffering of the prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord!
JAM 5:11 Behold, we declare happy the ones enduring. The endurance of Job you have heard, and the end by the Lord you know; that he is very compassionate and pitying.
JAM 5:12 But before all things, my brothers, do not swear by an oath, neither by the heaven, nor the earth, nor any other oath. But let your yes be, Yes; and the no, No! that you should not fall into hypocrisy.
JAM 5:13 Does anyone suffer hardships among you? let him pray! Is anyone cheerful? let him strum praise!
JAM 5:14 Is anyone sick among you? let him call on the elders of the assembly, and let them pray over him, having anointed him with olive oil in the name of the Lord!
JAM 5:15 And the vow of belief will deliver the weary one, and the Lord will raise him; and if he should be committing sins, it shall be forgiven him.
JAM 5:16 Acknowledge to one another the transgressions, and make a vow for one another, so that you should be healed! Much prevails by the supplication being energized by a just one.
JAM 5:17 Elijah was a man having the same passions as us, and with prayer he prayed for it not to rain. And it rained not upon the earth for three years and six months.
JAM 5:18 And again he prayed, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth burst forth its fruit.
JAM 5:19 Brothers, if any among you should be misled from the truth, and anyone should return him;
JAM 5:20 know that the one turning a sinner from the delusion of his way, shall deliver a soul from death, and shall cover a multitude of sins!
1PE 1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the chosen immigrants of the dispersion of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1PE 1:2 according to the foreknowledge of God the father, in sanctification of spirit, in obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Favor to you, and peace be multiplied.
1PE 1:3 Blessed is the God and father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the one according to his great mercy regenerated us unto a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1PE 1:4 unto an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and unfading, being kept in the heavens for us,
1PE 1:5 the ones by power of God being guarded through belief unto deliverance prepared to be uncovered in the last time.
1PE 1:6 In which you exult a little just now, if it is necessary, being fretted by various tests;
1PE 1:7 that the proving of the belief of yours, (much more esteemed than gold that perishes,) even being tried through fire, should be found in high praise and glory and honor in revelation of Jesus Christ.
1PE 1:8 Whom not having seen, you love; in whom now not looking on, but believing, you exult with joy unspeakable, and glorifying;
1PE 1:9 carrying on the end of the your belief - a deliverance of your souls.
1PE 1:10 Concerning which deliverance the prophets sought after and searched out, the ones prophesying concerning the favor towards you;
1PE 1:11 searching in what, or of what kind of time spirit of Christ was manifest in them, testifying beforehand the sufferings in Christ, and the glories after these things;
1PE 1:12 to whom it was revealed, that it was not to themselves, but to us they were serving up those things, which now were announced to you by the ones announcing good news to you in holy spirit sent from heaven; in which angels desire to lean over to see.
1PE 1:13 Therefore having girded the loins of your mind, being sober, perfectly hope upon the favor being brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ;
1PE 1:14 as children of obedience, not conforming to the former things in the ignorance of your desires!
1PE 1:15 But as the one calling you is holy, even you yourselves become holy in all your behavior!
1PE 1:16 For it has been written, Become holy! for I am holy.
1PE 1:17 And if you call upon the father, the one impartially judging according to the work of each, behave the sojourn of your time in fear!
1PE 1:18 And be knowing that you were not ransomed by corruptible silver or gold from out of your vain behavior handed down from your fathers;
1PE 1:19 but by the esteemed blood, (as of a lamb unblemished and spotless,) of Christ;
1PE 1:20 having been foreknown indeed before the founding of the world, but being manifested at the last of the times for us,
1PE 1:21 the ones through him believing in God raising him from the dead, and having given glory to him; so as for your belief and hope to be in God;
1PE 1:22 your souls being purified in the obedience of the truth through spirit in unpretentious brotherly affection. From out of a pure heart love one another fervently;
1PE 1:23 being regenerated, not from out of a corruptible sowing, but of incorruptible, by the word of God living and abiding in the eon!
1PE 1:24 For all flesh is as grass, and all glory of man is as the flower of grass; the grass withered, and its flower fell away.
1PE 1:25 But the word of the Lord abides into the eon. And this is the word - the good news being announced to you.
1PE 2:1 Having put aside then all evil, and all treachery, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings,
1PE 2:2 as newborn babes, long after the rational sincere milk, that by it you should grow!
1PE 2:3 if indeed you tasted that the Lord is gracious.
1PE 2:4 To whom coming forward as a living stone, indeed being rejected by men, but by God chosen, valued;
1PE 2:5 also yourselves, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices, well-received to God through Jesus Christ.
1PE 2:6 For it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I place in Zion a chosen valued cornering stone; and the one believing upon him in no way shall be disgraced.
1PE 2:7 To you then a stone of value - to the ones believing. But to the ones disobeying, a stone which the ones building rejected, this one became for the head of the corner,
1PE 2:8 and a stone of stumbling, and a rock causing offence, which being disobedient they stumble against the word,; to which also they were appointed.
1PE 2:9 But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for procurement; so that you should publish the virtues of the one calling you from out of darkness into his wonderful light.
1PE 2:10 The ones at some time or other not a people, but now are a people of God. The ones not being shown mercy, but now are shown mercy.
1PE 2:11 Beloved, I appeal to you as sojourners and immigrants, to be at a distance from the fleshy desires, which soldier against the soul;
1PE 2:12 having your behavior good among the nations; that in what they speak ill of you as ones doing evil, that from having scrutinized the good works, they should glorify God in the day of visitation.
1PE 2:13 Submit then to every human institution on account of the Lord; whether to king as being superior,
1PE 2:14 or whether to governors as being sent by him for punishment indeed on ones doing evil, and high praise on ones beneficial!
1PE 2:15 For so is the will of God, by doing good to halt the ignorance of foolish men;
1PE 2:16 as free, and not having freedom as a covering of evil, but as bondmen of God.
1PE 2:17 Honor all! Love the brotherhood! Fear God! Honor the king!
1PE 2:18 Domestic servants - being submitted with all fear to the masters, not only to the good and lenient, but also to the crooked.
1PE 2:19 For this is favor, if through conscience of God anyone endures distress, suffering unjustly.
1PE 2:20 For what fame if sinning, and you endure being buffeted? But if doing good, and you endure suffering, this is favorable with God.
1PE 2:21 For this you were called; for also Christ suffered for us, leaving behind to us a pattern, that you should follow after his tracks;
1PE 2:22 who did not sin, nor was there treachery found in his mouth;
1PE 2:23 who being reviled returned not verbal abuse; when suffering threatened not; but delivered himself up to the one judging justly;
1PE 2:24 who himself bore our sins in his body upon the timber, that becoming dead to sins, we should live to righteousness; of which by his stripe you were healed.
1PE 2:25 For you were as sheep wandering; but are returned now unto the shepherd and overseer of your souls.
1PE 3:1 In like manner the wives, being submitted to their own husbands; that even if any resist persuasion to the word, by the behavior of the wives they shall be gained without a word;
1PE 3:2 having scrutinized your pure behavior in fear.
1PE 3:3 Whom let there not be the outward braiding of hair, and adornment of gold or clothing of garments of ornamentation!
1PE 3:4 But let it be the hidden mankind of the heart, in the incorruptible ornament of the gentle and unassuming spirit, which is lavish in the presence of of God.
1PE 3:5 For thus at some time or other also the holy women hoping upon God, adorned themselves, being submitted to their own husbands;
1PE 3:6 as Sarah obeyed to Abraham, calling him lord; of whom you became children, doing good and not fearing with any terror.
1PE 3:7 The husbands, in like manner, living with them according to knowledge, as being a weaker utensil in the feminine way, bestowing honor as also joint-heirs of favor of life; so as to not hinder your prayers.
1PE 3:8 But the conclusion - all be agreeing, sympathizing, affectionate, compassionate, obliging,
1PE 3:9 not rendering evil for evil, or reviling for reviling. But on the other hand, blessing; knowing that in this you were called, that you should inherit a blessing.
1PE 3:10 For the one wanting to love life, and to behold good days, let him cease his tongue from evil, and his lips to not speak deceit!
1PE 3:11 Let him turn aside from evil, and let him do good! Let him seek peace, and pursue it!
1PE 3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are upon just ones, and his ears towards their supplication. But the face of the Lord is against the ones doing evil to utterly destroy them from the earth\dagger\cvnote3:10-12 See Ps. 34:12-16..
1PE 3:13 And who is the one afflicting you, if you should become mimics of the good?
1PE 3:14 But if also you may suffer because of righteousness, blessed are you; but the fear of them you should not fear, nor should you be disturbed.
1PE 3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready continually for a defense to all - to the one asking you a word concerning the hope in you, with gentleness and fear;
1PE 3:16 having a good conscience, that in what they should speak ill of you as ones doing evil, the ones threatening your good behavior in Christ should be put to shame!
1PE 3:17 For it is better if the will of God wants you to suffer for doing good, than doing evil.
1PE 3:18 For Christ also suffered once for sins - the just one for the unjust ones, that he should lead us forward to God, having put to death indeed the flesh, but being restored to life to the spirit;
1PE 3:19 in which also having gone he proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
1PE 3:20 to the ones who disobeyed at some time or other, when once the long-suffering of God was accepted in the days of Noah, carefully preparing an ark, in which few, that is to say, eight souls were preserved through water.
1PE 3:21 Which antitype also now delivers us - immersion; not flesh getting rid of filth, but the response of a good conscience towards God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
1PE 3:22 who is at the right of God, being gone into heaven, with angels and authorities and powers being submitted to him.
1PE 4:1 Christ then having suffered for us in flesh, you also be armed by the same reflection! For the one suffering in flesh, has ceased sin;
1PE 4:2 to no longer spend the remaining time in the flesh of men's desires but God's will.
1PE 4:3 For sufficient to us was the having passed time of the existence to have worked the will of the nations, going in lewdnesses, desires, drunkennesses with wine, debaucheries, drinking banquets, and unlawful idolatries;
1PE 4:4 in which they think it strange your not running together in the same pouring out of carnality, being blasphemous;
1PE 4:5 ones who shall render an account to the one readily sufficing to judge the living and dead.
1PE 4:6 For in this also to the dead was announced good news, that they should be judged indeed according to men in flesh, but should live according to God in spirit.
1PE 4:7 But of all things the end approaches. Be of sound mind then, and be sober in the prayers!
1PE 4:8 But before all things having the intense love among yourselves; for love covers a multitude of sins;
1PE 4:9 being hospitable to one another without grumblings -
1PE 4:10 each as he received favor, to each other a same serving, as good managers of the variegated favor of God.
1PE 4:11 If any speaks, let it be as oracles of God; if any serves, let it be as from out of strength which God supplies; that in all things God should be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the might into the eons of the eons. Amen.
1PE 4:12 Beloved, do not take it as strange the burning fire taking place among you to test you, as a strange thing happening to you.
1PE 4:13 But according to that which you participate with the sufferings of the Christ rejoice, that also in the revelation of his glory you should rejoice exulting!
1PE 4:14 If you are berated in the name of Christ, blessed are you; for the fact of the glory and the fact of the spirit of God gives rest unto you. Indeed according to them he is blasphemed, but according to you he is glorified.
1PE 4:15 For let not any of you suffer as a murderer, or thief, or one doing evil, or as a busybody!
1PE 4:16 But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God in this part!
1PE 4:17 For it is the time to begin the judgment from the house of God. And if first from us, what is the end of the ones disobeying to the thing of the good news of God?
1PE 4:18 And if the just one hardly is delivered, the impious one and sinner, where shall they appear?
1PE 4:19 So then, even the ones suffering according to the will of God, as to a trustworthy creator, let them place their souls in doing good.
1PE 5:1 Elders, the ones among you, I exhort, I the fellow-elder and witness of the sufferings of the Christ, the one also partner of the about to be revealed glory -
1PE 5:2 tend the flock of God among you, overseeing, not by compelling, but voluntarily; nor sordidly, but eagerly;
1PE 5:3 nor as one dominating the lots, but becoming models for the flock!
1PE 5:4 And at the manifesting of the chief shepherd, you shall carry the unfading crown of glory.
1PE 5:5 In like manner, let the younger ones submit to older ones! And all adorn humility being submitted one to another! For God resists the proud, but gives favor to the humble.
1PE 5:6 Be humbled then under the fortified hand of God, that he should exalt you in time!
1PE 5:7 while casting all your anxiety upon him, for with him there is a care concerning you.
1PE 5:8 Be sober! Be vigilant! Your opponent the devil walks as a roaring lion seeking whom he should swallow down.
1PE 5:9 To whom oppose solid in the belief, knowing the same sufferings to the one in the world are being completed by your brotherhood!
1PE 5:10 But the God of all favor, having called us into his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, having suffered a little, may he ready you, support you, strengthen you, found you.
1PE 5:11 To him be the glory and the might into the eons of the eons. Amen.
1PE 5:12 Through Silvanus, the trustworthy brother to you, as I consider, a little I wrote, appealing and attesting this to be the true favor of God in which you stand.
1PE 5:13 She chosen with you in Babylon greets you; and Mark my son.
1PE 5:14 Greet one another with a kiss of love! Peace to you, to all the ones in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2PE 1:1 Simon Peter, a bondman and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the ones equally honored with us having obtained belief in righteousness of our God and deliverer Jesus Christ.
2PE 1:2 Favor to you, and may peace be multiplied in full knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord,
2PE 1:3 as all things to us of his divine power, the things for life and piety, being presented through the full knowledge of the one having called us by glory and virtue;
2PE 1:4 by which he has presented the things esteemed for us and greatest declarations; that through these you should become partners of divine nature, having escaped the corruption in the world by lust.
2PE 1:5 And for this same reason also, adding all diligence, supply virtue in your belief, and in virtue knowledge,
2PE 1:6 and in knowledge self-control, and in self-control endurance, and in endurance piety,
2PE 1:7 and in piety brotherly affection, and in brotherly affection love!
2PE 1:8 For these things being in you, and being superabundant, they stand not idle nor unfruitful in the full knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2PE 1:9 But in whom these things are not at hand is blind, losing sight, having taken forgetfulness of the cleansing of his earlier sins.
2PE 1:10 Therefore rather, brethren, hurry to make your calling and selection firm! For these things doing, in no way should you fail at some time or other.
2PE 1:11 For thus richly shall be supplied to you the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and deliverer Jesus Christ.
2PE 1:12 Therefore I shall not neglect to remind you continually concerning these things, though knowing them, and being fixed firmly in the truth at hand.
2PE 1:13 But I esteem it just, for as long as I am in this tent, to awaken you by recollection;
2PE 1:14 knowing that the getting rid of my tent is quick, as also our Lord Jesus Christ manifested to me.
2PE 1:15 But I will hurry also always for you to have after my exodus the making remembrance of these things.
2PE 1:16 For not following after discerning fables did we make known to you the thing of the power and arrival of our Lord Jesus Christ - but having been spectators of that ones' magnificence.
2PE 1:17 For having received from God the father honor and glory, such a voice having been brought to him by the majestic glory, said, This is my son the beloved, in whom I take pleasure.
2PE 1:18 And this voice we heard brought from heaven, being with him on the holy mountain.
2PE 1:19 And we have more firm the prophetic word; which well you do heeding, as a lamp shining forth in a dismal place, until which day should shine through, and the morning star should arise in your hearts.
2PE 1:20 This first knowing, that every prophecy of scripture does not take place by private explanation.
2PE 1:21 For not by will of man was prophecy borne at some time or other; but by holy spirit being borne the holy men of God spoke.
2PE 2:1 But there existed also false prophets among the people, as also among you there will be false teachers who shall introduce privately destructive sects, and denying the master buying them, bringing unto themselves quick destruction.
2PE 2:2 And many shall follow after them in the destructions; through whom the way of the truth shall be blasphemed.
2PE 2:3 And by a desire for wealth, with shaped words, they shall make trade of you; for whom the judgment of old is not idle, and their destruction shall not slumber.
2PE 2:4 For since God spared not of angels sinning, but in chains of the infernal region delivered them up for being kept for judgment;
2PE 2:5 and the ancient world he spared not, but kept Noah the eighth proclaimer of righteousness, having brought a flood in the world for impious ones;
2PE 2:6 and the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah having reduced to ashes he condemned by a final event; having set an example for the ones being about to be impious;
2PE 2:7 and rescued the just Lot being harassed by the unlawful ones in lewdness of behavior,
2PE 2:8 (for by sight and hearing, the just one dwelling among them, day by day tormented his just soul by their lawless works;)
2PE 2:9 then know the Lord knows to rescue the pious from tests, and the unrighteous to keep for a day of judgment being punished;
2PE 2:10 and especially the ones going after the flesh in a desire for defilement, and disdaining lordship; daring, self-willed, they tremble not in blaspheming glories.
2PE 2:11 Where angels being in strength and greater power, do not bring against them before the Lord a blasphemous case.
2PE 2:12 But these, (as physical illogical living creatures, engendered for conquest and corruption in blaspheming what they know not,) in their corruption shall be laid waste;
2PE 2:13 carrying a wage of unrighteousness; esteeming the daily delicacy satisfaction - stains and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, feasting together with you;
2PE 2:14 having eyes full of an adulterous one, and ceaseless of sin; entrapping unstable souls; having a heart being exercised for a desire for wealth; children of curse.
2PE 2:15 Leaving behind the straight way, they wandered, following after the way of Balaam the son of Bosor, who loved the wage of unrighteousness;
2PE 2:16 but had rebuke of his own unlawfulness - a voiceless beast of burden, in a man's voice uttering a sound restrained the ranting of the prophet.
2PE 2:17 These are waterless springs, clouds being driven by a tempest, ones to whom the infernal region of darkness is kept into the eon.
2PE 2:18 For uttering pompous sounds of folly, they entrap by the desires of the flesh, in lewdnesses, the ones who really escaped from the ones behaving in delusion,
2PE 2:19 promising freedom to them, they being bondmen of corruption; for by whom anyone has been vanquished, by this one even he is enslaved.
2PE 2:20 For if they having escaped the defilements of the world, in the full knowledge of the Lord and deliverer Jesus Christ, and in these things again being entangled they are vanquished, the last has become to them worse than the first.
2PE 2:21 For it was better for them to have not known the way of righteousness, than having known, to have turned from the holy commandment delivered to them.
2PE 2:22 But has come to pass to them the word of the True proverb, A dog having returned unto its own excrement, and a bathed pig unto wallowing in mire.
2PE 3:1 This already, beloved, a second letter I write to you; in which I awaken your honest consideration in recollection,
2PE 3:2 to remember the before described sayings by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of the Lord and deliverer of us the apostles.
2PE 3:3 This first knowing, that mockers will come at the last of the days, going according to their own lusts,
2PE 3:4 and saying, Where is the promise of his arrival? For from of which time the fathers went to sleep, all things thus continue from the beginning of creation.
2PE 3:5 For this escaped their notice willingly, that heavens were of old, and earth from out of water and through water stood together by the word of God.
2PE 3:6 On account of which things the world then perished having been flooded by water.
2PE 3:7 But the present heavens and the earth, in the same word are treasured up for fire, being kept for a day of judgment and destruction of the impious men.
2PE 3:8 But in this, let it not be unaware to you, beloved, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
2PE 3:9 The Lord is not slow of promise, as some esteem slowness; but is long-suffering towards us, not willing for anyone to perish, but for all to have space for repentance.
2PE 3:10 But shall come the day of the Lord as a thief in the night; in which the heavens by a loud noise shall pass away, and the elements being destroyed by fire shall be loosed, and the earth and the works in it shall be incinerated.
2PE 3:11 These things then all being loosed, what kind of persons must you be in holy behavior and piety,
2PE 3:12 expecting and hastening the arrival of the day of God, by which the heavens being set on fire shall be loosed, and the elements being destroyed by fire shall melt away?
2PE 3:13 But new heavens and a new earth, according to his declaration, we expect, in which righteousness dwells.
2PE 3:14 Therefore, beloved, these things expecting, endeavor to be found by him spotless and without blemish in peace!
2PE 3:15 And esteem the long-suffering deliverance of our Lord; as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him wrote to you;
2PE 3:16 as also in all the letters, speaking in them concerning these things; in which some things are hard to comprehend, which the illiterate and unstable make crooked, as also the rest of scriptures, to their own destruction.
2PE 3:17 You then, beloved, foreknowing, guard that not by the delusion of the unlawful ones having been led away, you should fall from your own steadfastness!
2PE 3:18 But grow in the favor and knowledge of our Lord and deliverer Jesus Christ! To him be the glory both now and into day of eon. Amen.
1JO 1:1 Which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we were spectators of, and our hands handled, concerning the word of the life;
1JO 1:2 (and the life was made manifest, and we have seen, and bear witness, and announce - we report. to you the eternal life, which was with the father, and was made manifest to us;)
1JO 1:3 which we have seen and have heard we report to you, that also you should have fellowship with us; and indeed the fellowship, the one ours, is with the father, and with his son Jesus Christ.
1JO 1:4 And these things we write to you, that our joy is being full.
1JO 1:5 And this is the promise which we have heard from him, and we announce to you, that God is light, and darkness is not in any way in him.
1JO 1:6 If we should say that we have fellowship with him, and in the darkness should walk, we lie, and we do not observe the truth.
1JO 1:7 But if we should walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his son cleanses us from all sin.
1JO 1:8 If we should say that we do not have sin, we mislead ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1JO 1:9 If we should acknowledge our sins, he is trustworthy and just that he should have forgiven to us the sins, and should have cleansed us from all iniquity.
1JO 1:10 If we should say that we sinned not, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.
1JO 2:1 My sons, these things I write to you, that you should not sin. And if any should sin, we have a comforter with the father - Jesus Christ the just one.
1JO 2:2 And he is atonement for our sins; but not only for ours, but also for the whole world.
1JO 2:3 And by this we know that we have known him‚ if the commandments of his we keep.
1JO 2:4 The one saying, I know him, and his commandments is not keeping, is a liar, and the truth is not in this one.
1JO 2:5 But who ever should give heed of his word, truly in this one the love of God has been perfected. By this we know that we are in him.
1JO 2:6 The one saying to be abiding in him, ought as that one walked, also himself so to walk.
1JO 2:7 Brothers, I do not write to you a new commandment, but an old commandment which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you heard from the beginning.
1JO 2:8 Again, a new commandment I write to you, which is True in him, and in you; because the darkness passes away, and the true light already shines forth.
1JO 2:9 The one saying to be in the light, and detests his brother, is in the darkness until now.
1JO 2:10 The one loving his brother abides in the light, and there is not a cause of offence in him.
1JO 2:11 But the one detesting his brother is in the darkness, and in the darkness walks, and does not know where he goes, because the darkness blinded his eyes.
1JO 2:12 I write to you, sons, for the sins have been forgiven to you through his name.
1JO 2:13 I write to you, fathers, because you have known the one from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the wicked one. I write to you, children, because you have known the father.
1JO 2:14 I wrote to you, fathers, because you have known the one from the beginning. I wrote to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one.
1JO 2:15 Do not love the world, nor the things in the world! If anyone should love the world, the love of the father is not in him.
1JO 2:16 For every thing in the world, the desire of the flesh, and the desire of the eyes, and the ostentatiousness of existence, is not of the father, but is of the world.
1JO 2:17 And the world passes away, and the desire of it; but the one doing the will of God abides into the eon.
1JO 2:18 Children, it is the last hour; and as you heard that the antichrist comes, and now many antichrists exist; whereupon we know that it is the last hour.
1JO 2:19 From us they went forth, but they were not of us. For if they were of us, they would have remained with us. But it was that they should be made manifest that all are not of us.
1JO 2:20 And you have an anointing from the holy one, and you know all things.
1JO 2:21 I wrote not to you because you know not the truth, but because you do know it, and that every lie is not of the truth.
1JO 2:22 Who is the liar, if not the one denying, saying that, Jesus is not the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one denying the father and the son.
1JO 2:23 Every one denying the son, neither has the father.
1JO 2:24 You then, what you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you! If what you heard from the beginning should abide in you, then you shall abide in the son and in the father.
1JO 2:25 And this is the promise which he promised to us - the life eternal.
1JO 2:26 These things I wrote to you concerning the ones misleading you.
1JO 2:27 And you - the anointing which you received from him abides in you, and you have not a need that any should teach you. But as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true, and is not a lie, and as it taught you, you shall abide in him.
1JO 2:28 And now, sons, abide in him; that whenever he should be made manifest, we should have an open manner, and we should not be ashamed before him at his arrival!
1JO 2:29 If you know that he is just, you know that every one doing righteousness is engendered of him.
1JO 3:1 Behold, what kind of love the father has given to us, that we should be called children of God! On account of this the world does not know us, because it did not know him.
1JO 3:2 Beloved, now we are children of God, and not yet was it manifested what we will be. But we know that if he should be manifested, we will be likened to him; for we shall see him as he is.
1JO 3:3 And every one having this hope upon him, purifies himself, as that one is pure.
1JO 3:4 Every one committing sin, also commits lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness.
1JO 3:5 And you know that that one was made manifest that he should lift away our sins; and sin is not in him.
1JO 3:6 Anyone abiding in him sins not; anyone sinning has not seen him, nor has known him.
1JO 3:7 Sons, let no one mislead you! The one executing righteousness is just, as that one is just.
1JO 3:8 The one committing sin is of the devil; for from the beginning the devil sins. For this the son of God was made manifest, that he should loosen the works of the devil.
1JO 3:9 Anyone engendered of God does not commit sin; for his seed abides in him; and he is not able to sin, because he has been engendered by God.
1JO 3:10 In this the children of God are apparent, and the children of the devil. Every one not executing righteousness is not of God, even the one not loving his brother.
1JO 3:11 For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
1JO 3:12 Not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and slew his brother. And for what favor did he slay him? For his works were wicked, but the ones of his brother just.
1JO 3:13 Marvel not, my brothers, if the world detests you!
1JO 3:14 We know that we have crossed over from death into life, for we love the brothers. The one not loving the brothers abides in death.
1JO 3:15 Everyone detesting his brother is a man-killer. And you know that every man-killer does not have life eternal abiding in him.
1JO 3:16 By this we have known the love of God, because that one placed his life for us; and we ought to place our lives for the brothers.
1JO 3:17 But who ever should have the livelihood of the world, and should view his brother having need, and should lock up his feelings of compassion from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
1JO 3:18 My sons, we should not love in word nor tongue, but in work and truth.
1JO 3:19 And in this we know that we are of the truth, and before him we shall yield our hearts.
1JO 3:20 For if our heart should condemn, know that God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
1JO 3:21 Beloved, if our heart should not condemn us, we have confidence before God.
1JO 3:22 And what ever we should ask, we receive from him, for his commandments we keep, and the things pleasing before him we do.
1JO 3:23 And this is his commandment - that we should believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ, and should love one another, as he gave commandment.
1JO 3:24 And the one keeping his commandments abides in him, and he in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the spirit which he gave to us.
1JO 4:1 Beloved, believe not every spirit, but distinguish the spirits if they are of God! For many false prophets have gone forth into the world.
1JO 4:2 By this you know the spirit of God - every spirit which acknowledges Jesus Christ having come in flesh is of God.
1JO 4:3 And every spirit which does not acknowledge Jesus Christ having come in flesh is not of God. And this is the thing of the antichrist, which you heard that it comes; and is now in the world already.
1JO 4:4 You are sons of God, and have overcome them. For greater is the one in you, than the one in the world.
1JO 4:5 They are of the world. Because of this they speak of the world, and the world hears them.
1JO 4:6 We are of God. The one knowing God hears us; the one who is not of God, does not hear us. By this we know the spirit of the truth and the spirit of the delusion.
1JO 4:7 Beloved, we should love one another. For love is of God; and every one loving is engendered of God, and knows God.
1JO 4:8 The one not loving does not know God; for God is love.
1JO 4:9 In this was made manifest the love of God in us, that his son, the only born, God sent into the world, that we should live through him.
1JO 4:10 In this is the love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son as an atonement for our sins.
1JO 4:11 Beloved, if thus God loved us, also we ought to love one another.
1JO 4:12 No one has seen God at any time. If we should love one another, God abides in us, and his love has been perfected in us.
1JO 4:13 By this we know that in him we abide, and he in us - that of his spirit he has given to us.
1JO 4:14 And we have seen and bear witness that the father has sent the son as deliverer of the world.
1JO 4:15 Who ever should acknowledge that Jesus is the son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
1JO 4:16 And we have known and have believed the love which God has for us. God is love; and the one abiding in the love, abides in God, and God in him.
1JO 4:17 In this the love has been perfected with us, that we should have confidence in the day of the judgment. For as that one is, also we are in this world.
1JO 4:18 Fear is not in love, but perfect love casts fear outside; for fear holds punishment, and the one fearing has not been made perfect in love.
1JO 4:19 We love him, for he first loved us.
1JO 4:20 If anyone should say that, I love God, and should detest his brother, he is a liar. For the one not loving his brother, whom he has seen, how is he able to love God whom he has not seen?
1JO 4:21 And this commandment we have from him, That the one loving God should love also his brother.
1JO 5:1 Every one believing that Jesus is the Christ is engendered by God. And every one loving the one engendering, loves also the one being engendered by him.
1JO 5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, whenever we love God, and should keep his commandments.
1JO 5:3 For this is the love of God, that his commandments we should keep; and his commandments are not heavy.
1JO 5:4 For every one being engendered by God overcomes the world. And this is the victory in the overcoming the world - the belief of ours.
1JO 5:5 Who is the one overcoming the world, unless it be the one believing that Jesus is the son of God?
1JO 5:6 This is the one coming by water and blood - Jesus the Christ; not by the water only, but by the water and the blood. And the spirit is the one witnessing, that the spirit is the truth.
1JO 5:7 For three are the ones bearing witness in the heaven - the father, and the word and the holy spirit; and the three in one are. And three are the ones witnessing upon the earth -
1JO 5:8 the spirit, and the water, and the blood; and the three are in the one.
1JO 5:9 If the witness of the men we receive, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God which he has witnessed concerning his son.
1JO 5:10 The one believing in the son of God has the witness in himself. The one not believing in God, has made him a liar; for he has not believed in the witness which God has witnessed concerning his son.
1JO 5:11 And this is the witness - that God gave to us eternal life, and this life is in his son.
1JO 5:12 The one having the son, has life. The one not having the son of God does not have life.
1JO 5:13 These things I wrote to you, to the ones believing in the name of the son of God; that you should know that you have eternal life, and that you should believe in the name of the son of God.
1JO 5:14 And this is the confidence which we have with him, that, if anything we should ask according to his will, he hears us.
1JO 5:15 And if we know that he hears us, what ever we should ask, we know that we have the requests which we ask from him.
1JO 5:16 If anyone should see his brother sinning a sin not to death, he shall ask, and he shall give to him life - to the ones not sinning to death. There is sin to death; not concerning that do I say that he should ask.
1JO 5:17 Every unrighteousness is sin; and there is sin not to death.
1JO 5:18 We know that every one being engendered of God does not sin; but the one engendered of God keeps himself, and the wicked one does not touch him.
1JO 5:19 We know that we are of God, and the whole world is situated to the evil one.
1JO 5:20 And we know that the son of God has come, and has given to us thought, that we should know the one true, and we are in the one true, in his son Jesus Christ - this one is the True God, and the life eternal.
1JO 5:21 Sons, guard yourselves from the idols! Amen.
2JO 1:1 The elder, to the chosen lady, and to her children, whom I love in truth; and not I alone, but also all the ones knowing the truth;
2JO 1:2 on acccount of the truth abiding in us, and shall be with us into the eon.
2JO 1:3 There shall be with us favor, mercy, peace from God the father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the son of the father, in truth and love.
2JO 1:4 I rejoiced exceedingly that I have found of your children walking in truth, as we received commandment from the father.
2JO 1:5 And now I ask you, lady, not as writing to you a new commandment, but which we had from the beginning, that we should love one another.
2JO 1:6 And this is love - that we should walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment as you heard from the beginning, that in it you should walk.
2JO 1:7 For many deluded ones entered into the world not acknowledging Jesus Christ coming in flesh. This is the deluded one, and the antichrist.
2JO 1:8 Take heed of yourselves, that we should not lose what things we worked, but should accept a full wage!
2JO 1:9 Anyone violating, and not abiding in the teaching of the Christ, does not have God. The one abiding in the teaching of the Christ, this one has even the father and the son.
2JO 1:10 If anyone comes to you, and this teaching does not bring, do not receive him in the house, and do not say hail to him!
2JO 1:11 For the one saying to him, Hail, participates with his evil works.
2JO 1:12 Many things having to write to you, I do not want to with papyrus and ink. But I hope to come to you, and mouth to mouth to speak, that our joy might be filling.
2JO 1:13 The children of your chosen sister greet you. Amen.
3JO 1:1 The elder, to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truth.
3JO 1:2 Beloved, concerning all things I make a vow for you to prosper and to be in health, as your soul prospers.
3JO 1:3 For I rejoiced exceedingly of the brothers coming and bearing witness of you in the truth, as you walk in truth.
3JO 1:4 I have not a greater joy than this, that I should hear of my children walking in truth.
3JO 1:5 Beloved, do trusting what ever you should work among the brothers, and among the strangers,
3JO 1:6 witnessing to the love of yours before the assembly; whom you shall do well having sent forward worthily of God.
3JO 1:7 For on account of his name they went forth, taking nothing from the nations.
3JO 1:8 We then ought to accept such, that we should become fellow-workers in the truth.
3JO 1:9 I wrote to the assembly; but the one enjoying being first of them - Diotrephes, does not welcome us.
3JO 1:10 On account of this, if I come, I will remind him the works which he does - evil words prating against us. And not being sufficient with these, neither he himself welcomes the brothers, and the ones wanting to he restrains, and casts them out of the assembly.
3JO 1:11 Beloved, do not imitate evil, but the good! The one doing good is of God. But the one doing evil has not seen God.
3JO 1:12 To Demetrius witness is borne by all, and by the truth itself. And we also bear witness; and you know that our witness is true.
3JO 1:13 Many things I have to write, but I do not want by ink and reed to write to you.
3JO 1:14 But I hope immediately to see you, and mouth to mouth we shall speak. Peace to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name!
JUD 1:1 Jude, bondman of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to the ones having been sanctified in God the father, and of Jesus Christ being kept - called ones.
JUD 1:2 Mercy to you, and may peace and love be multiplied.
JUD 1:3 Beloved, having all diligence to write to you concerning the common deliverance, I had necessity to write to you, exhorting you to contend earnestly in the belief once delivered up to the holy ones.
JUD 1:4 For certain men crept in, the ones earlier being written about beforehand in this judgment - impious ones, transposing the favor of our God into lewdness, and God the only master, and our Lord Jesus Christ denying.
JUD 1:5 And I want to remind you, you once knowing this, that the Lord having delivered people from out of the land of Egypt, the second of the ones not believing he destroyed.
JUD 1:6 Also angels not keeping their own sovereignty, but leaving their own dwelling-place, he keeps in everlasting bonds under the infernal region for a day of great judgment.
JUD 1:7 As Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them likened to these in manner, given themselves to fornication, and having gone after other flesh, are situated as an example, undergoing punishment of eternal fire.
JUD 1:8 In like manner however also these dreaming ones, indeed defile the flesh, and annul lordships, and blaspheme glorious things.
JUD 1:9 And Michael the archangel, when litigating against the devil, reasoned concerning Moses's body, did not dare to bear a blasphemous case, but said, May the Lord reproach you.
JUD 1:10 But these. indeed as many things as they know not of, they blaspheme. And as many things as they physically have knowledge of as illogical living creatures, in these things they corrupt themselves.
JUD 1:11 Woe to them, for in the way of Cain they went, and in the delusion of Balaam for a wage they shed, and in the dispute of Core perished.
JUD 1:12 These are in your love feasts as hidden reefs, feasting together among you, fearlessly tending themselves; waterless clouds being carried about by winds; unfruitful autumnal trees, twice having died, being rooted out;
JUD 1:13 wild waves of the sea foaming up their own shame; wandering stars, to whom the infernal region of darkness is being kept into the eon.
JUD 1:14 And also Enoch the seventh from Adam prophesied to these, saying, Behold, the Lord came with his holy myriads,
JUD 1:15 executing judgment against all, and to reprove all the impious ones of them concerning all the works of their impiety which they were impious, and concerning all of the hard things which impious sinners spoke against him.
JUD 1:16 These are grumblers, being discontented, going according to their desires; and their mouth speaks pompous things, admiring a person for the benefit of favor.
JUD 1:17 But you, beloved, remember the sayings being described beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ!
JUD 1:18 For they said to you, that in the end of time, there will be mockers, going according to their own desires of the impious deeds.
JUD 1:19 These are the ones separating bounds, physical, not having spirit.
JUD 1:20 But you, beloved, building up yourselves in your most holy belief, praying in holy spirit.
JUD 1:21 keep yourselves in love of God! waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, unto life eternal.
JUD 1:22 And indeed on some show mercy, scrutinizing!
JUD 1:23 And some with fear, deliver from the fire by seizing! Detesting even the inner garment being stained by the flesh.
JUD 1:24 But to him being able to keep them steady, and to stand them in front of his glory unblemished in exultation,
JUD 1:25 to the only wise God, our deliverer, be glory and greatness, might and authority, even now and into all the eons. Amen.
REV 1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to him, to show to his bondmen what must take place quickly. And he signified having sent by his angel to his bondman John,
REV 1:2 who testified the word of God, and the testimony of Jesus Christ, as much as indeed he saw.
REV 1:3 Blessed is the one reading, and the ones hearing the words of the prophecy, and heeding the things being written in it; for the time is near.
REV 1:4 John, to the seven assemblies in Asia. Favor to you, and peace, from the one being, and who was, and the one coming; and from the seven spirits which are before his throne;
REV 1:5 and from Jesus Christ, the trustworthy witness, the first-born of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To the one loving us, and bathing us from our sins in his blood,
REV 1:6 and made us a kingdom - priests to God, and to his father; to him be the glory and the might into the eons of the eons. Amen.
REV 1:7 Behold, he comes with the clouds; and every eye shall see him, even the ones which stabbed him. And all the tribes of the earth shall lament over him. Yes, amen.
REV 1:8 I am even the Alpha and the Omega, beginning and end., says the Lord God, the being one, and the one who was, and the one coming - the almighty.
REV 1:9 I John, your brother, and partner in the affliction and kingdom and endurance of Christ Jesus, came to be on the island being called Patmos, on account of the word of God, and on account of the testimony of Jesus Christ.
REV 1:10 I became in spirit on the Lord's day, and heard a great sound behind me, as a trumpet,
REV 1:11 saying -, What you see, write in a scroll, and send forth to the seven assemblies - in Ephesus, and in Smyrna, and in Pergamos, and in Thyatira, and in Sardis, and in Philadelphia, and in Laodicea!
REV 1:12 And there I turned to see the voice which spoke with me. And having turned, I beheld seven golden lamp-stands;
REV 1:13 and in the midst of the seven lamp-stands one likened to son of man, being clothed with a foot length robe, and being girded to the breasts with a golden belt.
REV 1:14 And of his head - even the hairs were white as wool, white as snow; and his eyes as a flame of fire;
REV 1:15 and his feet were likened to fine brass, as in a furnace being with fire; and his voice was as a sound of many waters;
REV 1:16 and having seven stars in his right hand; and from out of his mouth a sharp double-edged broadsword going forth; and his appearance was as the sun shines in its power.
REV 1:17 And when I beheld him, I fell to his feet as dead. And he placed his right hand upon me, saying, Do not fear! I am the first and the last,
REV 1:18 and the living one, and I became dead; and behold, I am living into the eons of the eons, amen. And I have the keys of death and of Hades.
REV 1:19 Write then the things which you saw, and the things which are, and the things which are about to take place after these things!
REV 1:20 The mystery of the seven stars which you saw upon my right, and the seven golden lamp-stands - the seven stars are angels of the seven assemblies. And the seven lamp-stands which you saw are seven assemblies.
REV 2:1 To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write! Thus says the one holding the seven stars in his right hand, walking in the midst of the seven golden lamp stands;
REV 2:2 I know your works, and your toil, and your endurance, and that you are not able to bear evil ones. And you tested the ones calling themselves apostles, and are not, and found them liars.
REV 2:3 And you bore, and have endurance, because of my name, and you tired not.
REV 2:4 But I have against you, that the first love of yours, you have left.
REV 2:5 Remember then from where you have fallen, and repent, and do the first works! But if not, I come to you quickly, and I will move your lamp stand from out of its place, unless you should repent.
REV 2:6 But this you have, that you detest the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also detest.
REV 2:7 The one having an ear, hear what the spirit says to the assemblies! To the one overcoming, I will give to him to eat from the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of my God.
REV 2:8 And to the angel of the assembly in Smyrna write! Thus says the first and the last, who became dead, and lived;
REV 2:9 I know your works, and affliction, and poorness, (but you are rich ) and the blasphemy of the ones calling themselves to be Jews, and are not, but a synagogue of Satan.
REV 2:10 By no means fear what things you are about to suffer! Behold indeed, the devil is about to throw some of you in prison, that you should be tested; and you shall have affliction ten days. Be trustworthy unto death, and I will give to you the crown of life!
REV 2:11 The one having an ear, hear what the spirit says to the assemblies! The one overcoming in no way should be injured by the second death.
REV 2:12 And to the angel of the assembly in Pergamos write! Thus says the one having the sharp double-edged broadsword.
REV 2:13 I know your works, and where you dwell, where the throne of Satan is; and you hold my name, and denied not the belief of me in the days in which Antipas my trustworthy witness was, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
REV 2:14 But I have against you a little. That you have there ones holding the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw an obstacle before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit harlotry.
REV 2:15 Thus also you have ones holding the teaching of the Nicolaitans in like manner.
REV 2:16 Repent! But if not, I come to you quickly, and I shall wage war with them by the broadsword of my mouth.
REV 2:17 The one having an ear, hear what the spirit says to the assemblies! To the one overcoming I will give to him to eat from the manna being hid, and will give to him a white small stone, and upon the small stone a new name being written, which no one knew except the one receiving.
REV 2:18 And to the angel of the assembly in Thyatira write! Thus says the son of God, the one having his eyes as a flame of fire, and his feet likened to fine brass.
REV 2:19 I know your works, and love, and belief, and service, and your endurance, and your works - the last more than the first.
REV 2:20 But I have against you, - a little. that you allow your woman Jezebel, which calls herself a prophetess, and teaches and misleads my bondmen to commit harlotry, and to eat things sacrificed to an idol.
REV 2:21 And I gave to her time that she should repent; and she wanted not to repent from her harlotry.
REV 2:22 Behold, I throw her into a bed, and the ones committing adultery with her into great affliction, unless they should repent from her works.
REV 2:23 And I will kill her children by plague; and they shall know in all the assemblies that I am the one searching the kidneys and hearts. And I will give to you each according to your works.
REV 2:24 And to you I say, to the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this teaching, and who knew not the deeps of Satan, as they speak; I will not throw upon you another load.
REV 2:25 Only what you have hold until of when ever I shall come!
REV 2:26 And the one overcoming, and the one giving heed until the end of my works, I will give to him authority over the nations.
REV 2:27 And he shall tend them with a rod of iron; as the vessels made of clay shall be broken; as I also have received from my father.
REV 2:28 And I will give to him the early morning star.
REV 2:29 The one having an ear, hear what the spirit says to the assemblies!
REV 3:1 And to the angel of the assembly in Sardis write! Thus says the one having the seven spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know your works, that you have a name, that you live - but you are dead.
REV 3:2 Become being vigilant, and support the rest which you are about to throw off! For I have not found your works being fulfilled before my God.
REV 3:3 Remember then how you received and heard, and give heed, and repent! If then you should not be vigilant, I will come upon you as a thief, and in no way should you know what hour I will come upon you.
REV 3:4 But You have a few names in Sardis which tainted not their garments; and they shall walk with me in white; for they are worthy.
REV 3:5 The one overcoming, this one shall be covered with white garments; and in no way shall I wipe away his name from out of the book of life; and I will acknowledge his name before my father, even in the presence of his angels.
REV 3:6 The one having an ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the assemblies!
REV 3:7 And to the angel of the assembly in Philadelphia write! Thus says the holy one, the true, the one having the key of David; the one opening, and no one locks, and locks, and no one opens.
REV 3:8 I know your works. Behold, I have put before you a door being opened, which no one is able to lock it. For you have a little power, and gave heed to my word, and denied not my name.
REV 3:9 Behold, I give from out of the synagogue of Satan of the ones saying themselves to be Jews, and are not, but lie. Behold, I will make them that they shall come and do obeisance before the feet of you, and they should know that I love you;
REV 3:10 in that you kept the word of my endurance, and I will keep you from the hour of the test about to come upon the entire world, to test the ones dwelling upon the earth.
REV 3:11 I come quickly. Hold what you have, that no one should take your crown!
REV 3:12 The one overcoming, I will make him a column in the temple of my God, and outside in no way should he go forth any longer. And I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, (of the new Jerusalem, which comes down from out of the heaven from my God,) and my new name.
REV 3:13 The one having an ear, hear what the spirit says to the assemblies!
REV 3:14 And to the angel of the assembly in Laodicea write! Thus says the Amen, the trustworthy and true witness, the source of the creation of God.
REV 3:15 I know your works, that you are neither cold nor boiling hot; ought you should be cold or boiling hot.
REV 3:16 Thus, because you are lukewarm, and not boiling hot nor cold, I am about to vomit you from out of my mouth.
REV 3:17 For you say that, I am rich, and am enriched, and have no need; and you know not that you are the miserable, and the pitiable, and poor, and blind, and naked.
REV 3:18 I advise you to buy gold from me purified by fire, that you should be rich; and that you should be covered with white garments, and the shame of your nakedness should not be made manifest; and rub collyrium upon your eyes, that you should see!
REV 3:19 I, as many as I should be fond of, I reprove and correct. Be zealous then, and repent!
REV 3:20 Behold, I stand at the door, and I knock. If any should hear my voice, and should open the door, even I will enter to him, and have supper with him, and he with me.
REV 3:21 The one overcoming I will give to him to sit with me on my throne, as even I overcame and sat with my father on his throne.
REV 3:22 The one having an ear, hear what the spirit says to the assemblies!
REV 4:1 After these things I saw, and behold, a door being opened in the heaven. And the first voice which I heard was as a trumpet speaking with me, saying, Ascend here, and I will show to you what must take place after these!
REV 4:2 And immediately I existed in spirit. And behold, a throne was situated in the heaven, and upon the throne one sitting,
REV 4:3 likened in sight to a jasper stone, and sardius. And a rainbow was round about the throne, likened to the sight of emerald.
REV 4:4 And round about the throne were twenty-four thrones. And upon the thrones I saw the twenty-four elders sitting down, being covered in white garments; and upon their heads golden crowns.
REV 4:5 And from out of the throne went forth lightnings, and voices, and thunders. And seven lamps of fire were burning before his throne, which are seven spirits of God.
REV 4:6 And before the throne was as a sea of glass, likened to ice. And in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind.
REV 4:7 And the first living creature was likened to a lion, and the second living creature was likened to a calf, and the third living creature having the face as a man, and the fourth living creature was likened to a flying eagle,
REV 4:8 and the four living creatures one by one of them having each six wings round about; and from inside being full of eyes. And they have not rest day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, Lord God almighty, the one who was, and the one being, and the one coming.
REV 4:9 And whenever the living creatures shall give glory, and honor, and thankfulness to the one sitting upon the throne living into the eons of the eons,
REV 4:10 the twenty four elders shall fall before the one sitting upon the throne, and shall do obeisance to the one living into the eons of the eons, and shall cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
REV 4:11 Worthy are you - the Lord and our God, the holy one, to receive the glory, and the honor, and the power; for you created all things, and by your will they are and were created.
REV 5:1 And I saw upon the right of the one sitting upon the throne a scroll being written on inside and outside, being sealed up with seven seals.
REV 5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a great voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll, and to loose its seals?
REV 5:3 And no one was able in the heaven, nor upon the earth, nor underneath the earth, to open the scroll, nor to look at it.
REV 5:4 And I wept much, for no one worthy was found to open and to read the scroll, nor to look at it.
REV 5:5 And one from the elders says to me, Weep not! Behold, the lion overcame, the one being from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, to open the scroll and to loose the seven seals of it.
REV 5:6 And I saw, and behold, in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a lamb standing as being slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God being sent into all the earth.
REV 5:7 And he came and took a scroll from out of the right hand of the one sitting upon the throne.
REV 5:8 And when he took the scroll, the four living creatures and twenty-four elders fell before the lamb, each having harps, and bowls made of gold being full of incenses, which are the prayers of the holy ones.
REV 5:9 And they sang a new ode, saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll, and to open its seals; for you were slain, and you bought us to God by your blood, from out of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation.
REV 5:10 And you made them kings and priests to our God; and they reign upon the earth.
REV 5:11 And I saw, and I heard as a sound of many angels round about the throne, and of the living creatures, and of the elders - and was the number of them myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands;
REV 5:12 saying with a great voice, Worthy is the lamb having been slain, to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing.
REV 5:13 And every creature which is in the heaven, and upon the earth, and underneath the earth, and which are upon the sea, and all the ones in them, I heard, saying, to the one sitting upon the throne, and to the lamb, Blessing, and honor, and glory, and might, to the eons of the eons.
REV 5:14 And the four living creatures saying the Amen. And the twenty four elders fell and did obeisance.
REV 6:1 And I saw that the lamb opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as a sound of thunder, Come and see!
REV 6:2 And I saw, and behold, a white horse; and the one sitting upon it having a bow. And was given to him a crown. And he went forth overcoming, and that he should overcome.
REV 6:3 And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come and see!
REV 6:4 And went forth another horse, fiery. And to the one sitting upon it was given to him to take peace from the earth, that they shall slay one another; and a great sword was given to him.
REV 6:5 And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come and see! And I saw, and behold, a black horse; and the one sitting upon it having a yoke balance scale in his hand.
REV 6:6 And I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A choenix of grain for a denarius, and three choenices of barley for a denarius; and the olive oil and the wine do not wrong.
REV 6:7 And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, Come and see!
REV 6:8 And I saw, and behold, a pale horse; and the one sitting upon it, his name was Death, and Hades followed after him. And was given to him authority upon the fourth of the earth, to kill by broadsword, and by hunger, and by plague, and by the wild beasts of the earth.
REV 6:9 And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of men having been slain because of the word of God, and because of the testimony of the lamb which they had.
REV 6:10 And they cried out with a great voice, saying, How long, O master, the holy and the true, do you not judge and avenge our blood of the ones dwelling upon the earth?
REV 6:11 And white robes were given to each; and it was said to them, that they should rest yet a time, until of which they should be fulfilled - both their fellow-servants and their brothers about to be killed, as also they.
REV 6:12 And I saw. And when he opened the sixth seal, even a great earthquake took place; and the sun became black as a sackcloth made of hair, and the moon became as blood;
REV 6:13 and the stars of the heaven fell unto the earth, as a fig-tree casts its immature figs being shaken by a great wind.
REV 6:14 And the heaven had been separated as a scroll being rolled; and every mountain and island from out of their places were shaken.
REV 6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the commanders of thousands, and the rich, and the mighty ones, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains.
REV 6:16 And they say to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall upon us, and hide us from the face of the one sitting upon the throne, and from the anger of the lamb!
REV 6:17 For is come the great day of his anger - and who is able to stand?
REV 7:1 And after this I saw four angels standing upon the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that they should not blow wind upon the earth, nor upon the sea, nor upon any tree.
REV 7:2 And I saw another angel having ascended from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God. And he cried out with a great voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to them to injure the earth and the sea,
REV 7:3 saying, Injure not the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, until we seal the bondmen of our God upon their foreheads.
REV 7:4 And I heard the numbers of the ones having been sealed - a hundred and forty four thousand having been sealed, from out of every tribe of the sons of Israel.
REV 7:5 From out of the tribe of Judah - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Reuben - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Gad - twelve thousand having been set seal upon;
REV 7:6 from out of the tribe of Asher - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Naphtali - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Manasseh - twelve thousand having been set seal upon;
REV 7:7 from out of the tribe of Simeon - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Levi - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Issachar - twelve thousand having been set seal upon;
REV 7:8 from out of the tribe Zebulun - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Joseph - twelve thousand having been set seal upon; from out of the tribe of Benjamin - twelve thousand having been set seal upon.
REV 7:9 After these things I saw, and behold, a great multitude, which no one was able to count from out of every nation, and tribes, and peoples, and languages, standing before the throne, and before the lamb, wearing white robes, and palms in their hands.
REV 7:10 And they cry out a great voice, saying, Deliverance to our God sitting upon the throne, and to the lamb.
REV 7:11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and the elders, and the four living creatures, and fell before the throne upon their faces, and did obeisance to God,
REV 7:12 saying, Amen, blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thankfulness, and honor, and power, and strength to our God into the eons of the eons, amen.
REV 7:13 And answered one of the elders, saying to me, These wearing the white robes, who are they, and from where came they?
REV 7:14 And I said to him, O my Lord, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones coming from out of the great affliction, and they washed their robes, and whitened them in the blood of the lamb.
REV 7:15 Because of this they are before the throne of God, and they serve to him day and night in his temple. And the one sitting upon the throne shall encamp over them.
REV 7:16 They shall not hunger any more, nor thirst any more, nor in any way shall the sun fall upon them, nor any sweltering heat.
REV 7:17 For the lamb in the midst of the throne shall tend them. And he shall guide them unto springs of waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
REV 8:1 And when he opened the seventh seal, there became quietness in the heaven about a half-hour.
REV 8:2 And I saw the seven angels which stand before God; and were given to them seven trumpets.
REV 8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and many incenses were given to him, that he should offer it with the prayers of all the holy ones upon the golden altar before the throne.
REV 8:4 And the smoke of the incenses ascended, with the prayers of the holy ones, from out of the hand of the angel, before God.
REV 8:5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it from out of the fire of the altar, and cast unto the earth. And there became sounds, and thunders, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
REV 8:6 And the seven angels having the seven trumpets prepared themselves that they should trump.
REV 8:7 And the first trumped; and came to pass hail and fire being mixed in blood, and was cast unto the earth; and the third of the earth was incinerated, and all green grass was incinerated.
REV 8:8 And the second angel trumped; and it was as a great burning mountain cast into the sea; and the third of the sea became blood.
REV 8:9 And the third of the creatures in the sea died, the ones having lives; and the third of the ships were utterly destroyed.
REV 8:10 And the third angel trumped; and a great star fell from out of the heaven, burning as a lamp, and it fell upon the third of the rivers, and upon the springs of the waters.
REV 8:11 And the name of the star is called Absinthium; and the third of the waters became into absinthium; and many of the men died because of the waters, for they were made bitter.
REV 8:12 And the fourth angel trumped; and the third of the sun was struck, and the third of the moon, and the third of the stars; that a third of them should be darkened, and the day should not appear for a third of it, and the night in like manner.
REV 8:13 And I saw and heard one eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying with a great voice, Woe, woe woe, to the ones dwelling upon the earth because of the remaining sounds of the trumpet of the three angels being about to trump.
REV 9:1 And the fifth angel trumped; and I saw a star falling from out of the heaven unto the earth; and was given to him the key of the well of the abyss.
REV 9:2 And he opened the well of the abyss; and ascended smoke from out of the well, as smoke of a furnace burning; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the well.
REV 9:3 And from out of the smoke came forth locusts unto the earth. And authority was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have authority.
REV 9:4 And it was said to them that they should not injure the grass of the earth, nor any green thing, nor any tree; except the men only who have not the seal of God upon their foreheads.
REV 9:5 And was given to them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months. And their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, whenever it should smite a man.
REV 9:6 And in those days men shall seek death, and in no way shall they find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.
REV 9:7 And the representations of the locusts were likened to horses being prepared for war; and upon their heads as golden crowns, and their faces as faces of men.
REV 9:8 And they had hair as hair of women, and their teeth were as lions.
REV 9:9 And they had chest plates, as chest plates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of many chariots of horses running to war.
REV 9:10 And they have tails likened to scorpions, and stings; and in their tails they have authority to injure men five months.
REV 9:11 They have a king over them - the angel of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in the Greek he has the name Apollyon.
REV 9:12 The one woe went forth; behold, comes still two woes after these.
REV 9:13 And the sixth angel trumped; and I heard one voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God,
REV 9:14 saying to the sixth angel having the trumpet, Loose the four angels being bound at the great river Euphrates!
REV 9:15 And the four angels were loosened, the ones being prepared for the hour, and day, and month, and year, that they should kill the third of men.
REV 9:16 And the number of the military of the horses - myriads of myriads; and I heard their number.
REV 9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and the ones sitting down upon them, having chest plates of fiery color, and of blue, and sulphurous. And the heads of the horses were as heads of lions, and out of their mouths went forth fire, and smoke, and sulphur.
REV 9:18 From these three plagues were killed the third of men, by the fire, and by the smoke, and of the sulphur going forth out of their mouths.
REV 9:19 For the authority of the horses is in their mouth, and in their tails; for their tails are likened to serpents, having heads, and by them they injure.
REV 9:20 And the rest of the men who were not killed by these calamities repented not from the works of their hands, that they should not do obeisance to the demons, and the idols - the golden, and the silver, and the brass, and the stones, and the wooden; which neither are able to see, nor to hear, nor to walk.
REV 9:21 And they repented not of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their harlotry, nor of their thefts.
REV 10:1 And I saw a strong angel coming down from the heaven, wearing a cloud, and the rainbow upon his head, and his face was as the sun, and his feet as columns of fire.
REV 10:2 And he had in his hand a small scroll being opened. And he put his right foot upon the sea, but the left upon the land.
REV 10:3 And he cried out with a great voice, as a lion roars. And when he cried out, the seven thunders spoke the things of their own voices.
REV 10:4 And when the seven thunders spoke, I was about to write. And I heard a voice out of the heaven saying to me, Set a seal upon what the seven thunders spoke, and do not write these things.
REV 10:5 And the angel whom I saw standing upon the sea and upon the earth lifted his hand, the right one, to the heaven.
REV 10:6 And he swore by an oath, by the one living into the eons of the eons, who created the heaven, and the things in it, and the earth, and the things in it, and the sea, and the things in it, that delay shall not any longer be.
REV 10:7 But in the days of the sound of the seventh angel, whenever he is about to trump, and the mystery of God should be initiated, which good news was announced by his bondmen the prophets.
REV 10:8 And the voice which I heard from out of the heaven again spoke with me, and saying, Go! Take the small scroll being open in the hand of the angel standing upon the sea, and upon the land!
REV 10:9 And I went forth to the angel, saying to him, Give to me the small scroll! And he says to me, Take and devour it, and it shall embitter your belly, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey!
REV 10:10 And I took the small scroll from out of the hand of the angel, and devoured it; and it was in my mouth as sweet honey. And when I ate it, my belly was made bitter.
REV 10:11 And he says to me, It is necessary for you again to prophesy over peoples, and over nations, and languages, and kings - many.
REV 11:1 And was given to me a reed measure likened to a rod. And the stood angel, saying, Arise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and the ones doing obeisance in it!
REV 11:2 And the outer courtyard of the temple put out, and do not measure it; for it was given to the nations. And they shall tread the holy city forty two months!
REV 11:3 And I will give to my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred sixty days wearing sackcloths.
REV 11:4 These are the two olive trees, and the two lamp-stands, standing before the Lord of the earth.
REV 11:5 And if anyone wants to injure them, fire goes forth from out of their mouth, and it devours their enemies. And if anyone wants to injure them, thus must he be killed.
REV 11:6 These have authority to lock the heaven, that it should not rain rain the days of their prophecy. And they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every calamity, as often as they should want.
REV 11:7 And whenever they should finish their witness, the wild beast ascending from out of the abyss shall make war with them, and shall overcome them, and shall kill them.
REV 11:8 And their corpses will be upon the square of the great city, which is spiritually called Sodom and Egypt, where even their Lord was crucified.
REV 11:9 And shall see of the peoples, and tribes, and languages, and nations, their corpses three days and a half. And they will not allow their corpses to be put in a tomb.
REV 11:10 And the ones dwelling upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and shall be glad, and shall send gifts to one another; for these two prophets tormented the ones dwelling upon the earth.
REV 11:11 And after three days and a half breath of life from God entered unto them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon the ones viewing them.
REV 11:12 And they heard a great voice from out of the heaven saying to them, Ascend here! And they ascended into the heaven in the cloud; and their enemies viewed them.
REV 11:13 And in that day a great earthquake took place, and the tenth of the city fell, and were killed in the earthquake the names of seven thousand men. And the rest became thrown into fear, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
REV 11:14 The second woe departed. The third woe, behold, it comes quickly.
REV 11:15 And the seventh angel trumped; and there were great voices in the heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world is become of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign into the eons of the eons.
REV 11:16 And the twenty four elders sitting before God upon their thrones, fell upon their faces, and did obeisance to God,
REV 11:17 saying, We give thanks to you, O Lord God almighty, the one being, and the one who was, and the one coming; for you have taken your great power, and reigned.
REV 11:18 And the nations were angry, and your wrath came, and the time of the dead to be judged, and to give the wage to your bondmen the prophets, and to the holy ones, and to the ones fearing your name, to the ones small and to the great; even to corrupt the ones corrupting the earth.
REV 11:19 And the temple of God was opened in the heaven, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord was seen in his temple. And there took place lightnings, and sounds, and thunders, and great hail.
REV 12:1 And a great sign appeared in the heaven; a woman wearing the sun, and the moon underneath her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars.
REV 12:2 And having one in the womb, she cried out travailing, and being tormented to give birth.
REV 12:3 And appeared another sign in the heaven; and behold, a great fiery dragon, having seven heads, and ten horns, and upon his heads were seven diadems.
REV 12:4 And his tail drags the third of the stars of the heaven, and did cast them to the earth. And the dragon stands before the woman about to give birth, that whenever she should give birth he should devour her child.
REV 12:5 And she bore a male son who is about to tend all the nations with a rod of iron. And her child was snatched away to God, and to his throne.
REV 12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place being prepared by God, that there she should be nourished a thousand two hundred sixty days.
REV 12:7 And there was war in the heaven - Michael and his angels to wage war with the dragon. And the dragon waged war and his angels.
REV 12:8 And he prevailed not, nor was a place found for him any longer in the heaven.
REV 12:9 And the great dragon was cast out - the ancient serpent, being called the devil and Satan. The one misleading the entire inhabitable world was cast unto the earth, and his angels were cast with him.
REV 12:10 And I heard a great voice in the heaven, saying, Now is come the deliverance, and the power, and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ. For the accuser of our brothers was cast down, the one accusing them before our God day and night.
REV 12:11 And they overcame him through the blood of the lamb, and through the word of their testimony; and they loved not their life until death.
REV 12:12 Because of this be glad, O heavens, and O ones encamping in them! Woe to the earth, and to the sea, for the devil is come down to you, having great rage, knowing that he has a short time.
REV 12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast to earth, he pursued the woman who gave birth to the male.
REV 12:14 And were given to the woman two wings of the great eagle, that she should fly into the wilderness, to her place, where she should be nourished there a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.
REV 12:15 And the serpent shot from out of his mouth water as a river after the woman, that he should make her river borne.
REV 12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed down the river which the dragon shot from out of his mouth.
REV 12:17 And the dragon was provoked to anger against the woman, and went forth to make war with the rest of her seed giving heed to the commandments of God, and having the testimony of Jesus.
REV 13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw from out of the sea a wild beast ascending, having ten horns and seven heads, and upon his horns ten diadems, and upon his heads a name of blasphemy.
REV 13:2 And the wild beast which I saw was likened to a leopard, and his feet as a bear, and his mouth as a mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave to him his power, and his throne, and great authority.
REV 13:3 And one of his heads w as as having been slain to death; and the wound of his death was cured; and there was wonder in all the earth after the wild beast.
REV 13:4 And they did obeisance to the dragon giving the authority to the wild beast. And they did obeisance to the wild beast, saying, Who is likened to the wild beast? And who is mighty to wage war with it?
REV 13:5 And a mouth was given to him speaking great things and blasphemy. And authority was given to him to make war forty two months.
REV 13:6 And he opened his mouth for blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tent, and the ones encamping in the heaven.
REV 13:7 And was given to him to make war with the holy ones, and to overcome them. And was given to him authority over every tribe, and language, and nation.
REV 13:8 And they did obeisance to him, all the ones dwelling upon the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of the life of the lamb having being slain from the founding of the world.
REV 13:9 If anyone has an ear, hear!
REV 13:10 If anyone has captivity, into captivity he goes. If anyone kills with a sword, it is a must for him to be killed by a sword. Here is the endurance and the belief of the holy ones.
REV 13:11 And I saw another wild beast ascending from out of the earth; and he had two horns likened to a lamb, and spoke as a dragon.
REV 13:12 And he executes all the authority of the first wild beast before him, and caused the earth and the ones dwelling in it that they should do obeisance to the first wild beast, of which was cured the wound of his death.
REV 13:13 And he works great signs and fire, that from out of the heaven it should come down upon the earth before men.
REV 13:14 And he misleads the ones of mine dwelling upon the earth by the signs which were given to him to do before the wild beast, saying to the ones dwelling upon the earth, to make an image to the wild beast which had the wound of the sword, and lived.
REV 13:15 And was given to him breath to give to the image of the wild beast, that also the image of the wild beast should speak, and should cause as many as would not do obeisance to the image of the wild beast that they should be killed.
REV 13:16 And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the free and the bondmen, that there should be given to them an imprint upon their right hand, or upon their foreheads.
REV 13:17 And that no one should be able to buy or sell, except the one having the imprint, or the name of the wild beast, or the number of his name.
REV 13:18 Here is wisdom. The one having the mind tally the number of the wild beast; for it is a number of a man, and his number is \Engsevenbd 600 \Engsevenbd 60 \Engsevenbd 6.
REV 14:1 And I saw, and behold, a lamb standing upon mount Zion, and with him a hundred forty four thousand, having his name and the name of his father being written upon their foreheads.
REV 14:2 And I heard a sound from out of the heaven, as a sound of many waters, and as a sound of great thunder. And the sound which I heard was as harpists harping with their harps.
REV 14:3 And they sing a new ode before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders. And no one is able to learn the ode, except the hundred forty four thousand being bought from the earth.
REV 14:4 These are the ones not tainted with women; for they are virgins. These are the ones following the lamb where ever he should go. These were bought by Jesus from men as first-fruit to God, and to the lamb.
REV 14:5 And in their mouth was not found a lie, for they are unblemished.
REV 14:6 And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven, having eternal good news to announce good news for the ones being settled upon the earth, and unto every nation, and tribe, and language, and people,
REV 14:7 saying with a great voice, Fear God, and give to him glory! For the hour of his judgment came. And do obeisance to the one having made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and springs of waters!
REV 14:8 And another angel, a second followed, saying, Is fallen, is fallen, Babylon the great, because she has given all the nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her harlotry.
REV 14:9 And another angel, a third followed them, saying with a great voice, If any does obeisance to the wild beast and his image, and receives an imprint upon his forehead or upon his hand;
REV 14:10 even he shall drink of the wine of the rage of God being mixed undiluted in the cup of his wrath; and he shall be tormented by fire and sulphur before the holy angels, and before the lamb.
REV 14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascends into the eons of eons; and they have not rest day and night - the ones doing obeisance to the wild beast and his image, and if anyone takes the imprint of his name.
REV 14:12 Here is the endurance of the holy ones. Here are the ones keeping the commandments of God, and the belief of Jesus.
REV 14:13 And I heard a voice from out of the heaven saying to me, Write! Blessed are the dead dying in the Lord from now on. The spirit says Yes, for they shall rest from their toils; and their works shall follow after them.
REV 14:14 And I saw, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud sitting was one likened to son of man, having upon his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
REV 14:15 And another angel came forth from out of the temple, crying out with a great voice to the one sitting upon the cloud, Send forth your sickle and reap! For the hour came to reap; for the harvest of the earth is dried.
REV 14:16 And the one sitting upon the cloud put his sickle unto the earth; and the earth was reaped.
REV 14:17 And another angel came forth from out of the temple in the heaven, having also himself a sharp sickle.
REV 14:18 And another angel came forth from the altar, having authority over the fire, and called with a great cry to the one having the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth your sharp sickle, and gather the vintage of the clusters of grapes of the grapevine of the earth! for her grapes are ripened.
REV 14:19 And the angel put his sickle to the earth, and gathered the vintage - the grapevine of the earth. And he cast into the wine vat of the rage of the great God.
REV 14:20 And the wine vat was trodden outside the city. And came forth blood from out of the wine vat as far as the bridle of the horses, from a thousand six hundred stadiums.
REV 15:1 And I saw another sign in the heaven, great and wonderful, seven angels having the last seven calamities; for in them the rage of God was finished.
REV 15:2 And I saw as a glass sea with fire being mixed. And the ones overcoming of the wild beast, and of his image, and of the number of his name, were standing upon the glass sea, having harps of God.
REV 15:3 And they sing the ode of Moses the bondman of God, and the ode of the lamb, saying, Great and wonderful are your works, O Lord God almighty; just and True are your ways, O king of the nations.
REV 15:4 Who in no way should fear you, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you are alone holy. For all the nations shall come and shall do obeisance before you; for your ordinances were manifested.
REV 15:5 And after these things I saw, and the temple of the tent of the testimony was opened in the heaven.
REV 15:6 And came forth the seven angels having the seven calamities, who were being clothed in clean and bright flax, and being girded around the breasts by golden belts.
REV 15:7 And one from the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls being full of the rage of God, of the one living into the eons of the eons.
REV 15:8 And the temple was filled of smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and no one was able to enter into the temple until the seven calamities of the seven angels were finished.
REV 16:1 And I heard a great voice from out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go pour out the bowls of the rage of God unto the earth!
REV 16:2 And went forth the first, and he poured out his bowl upon the earth; and there became a hurtful and severe sore to the men having the imprint of the wild beast, and the ones doing obeisance to his image.
REV 16:3 And the second angel poured out his bowl into the sea; and it became blood as of a dead one; and every living soul died in the sea.
REV 16:4 And the third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of the waters; and they became blood.
REV 16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters saying, You are just, the being one, and the one who was, the sacred one, that you judged these things.
REV 16:6 For the blood of holy ones and prophets they poured out, and you gave to them blood to drink - they are worthy.
REV 16:7 And I heard from out of the altar, saying, Yes, O lord God the almighty, True and just are your judgments.
REV 16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun; and was given to him to scorch the men by fire.
REV 16:9 And the men were scorched with a great sweltering heat, and the men blasphemed the name of God, of the one having the authority over these calamities; and they repented not to give to him glory.
REV 16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his bowl upon the throne of the wild beast; and his kingdom became enveloped in darkness; and they gnawed their tongues because of the misery,
REV 16:11 and blasphemed the God of heaven because of their miseries, and because of their sores, and they repented not of their works.
REV 16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his bowl upon the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way of the kings should be prepared, of the ones from the rising of the sun.
REV 16:13 And I saw from out of the mouth of the dragon, and from out of the mouth of the wild beast, and from out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits as frogs.
REV 16:14 For they are spirits of daimons, doing signs which go forth unto the kings of the entire inhabitable world, to gather them together for battle of that great day of God almighty.
REV 16:15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is the one being vigilant, and keeping his garments, that he should not walk naked, and they shall see his indecency.
REV 16:16 And he gathered them together to the place being called in Hebrew Armageddon.
REV 16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air; and came forth a great voice from the temple of the heaven, from the throne, saying, It has taken place.
REV 16:18 And there were lightnings, and thunders, and sounds; and a great earthquake took place, such as has not taken place from which time men were upon the earth, with such an earthquake so great.
REV 16:19 And the great city became into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the great was remembered before God, to give to her the cup of the wine of the rage of his wrath.
REV 16:20 And every island fled, and mountains were not found.
REV 16:21 And great hail as a talent weight descends from out of the heaven upon men. And the men blasphemed God because of the calamity of the hail; for its calamity is exceedingly great.
REV 17:1 And came one of the seven angels of the ones having the seven bowls, and spoke with me, saying, Come, I will show to you the judgment of the great harlot sitting upon the many waters,
REV 17:2 with whom the kings of the earth committed harlotry, and the ones dwelling on the earth were intoxicated of the wine of her harlotry.
REV 17:3 And he carried me away into the wilderness in spirit. And I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet wild beast, being full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
REV 17:4 And the woman was wearing purple and scarlet, gilded with gold and precious stone and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and the uncleanlinesses of her harlotry.
REV 17:5 And upon her forehead a name being written, Mystery, Babylon the great, the mother of the harlots and of the abominations of the earth.
REV 17:6 And I saw the woman being intoxicated of the blood of the holy ones, and of the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And I marveled, having seen her, with great wonder.
REV 17:7 And the angel said to me, Why did you marvel? I will tell to you the mystery of the woman, and of the wild beast bearing her, having the seven heads and the ten horns.
REV 17:8 The wild beast which you saw was, and is not; and is about to ascend from out of the abyss, and to go away into destruction. And the ones dwelling upon the earth shall marvel, whose names are not written upon the scroll of the life from the founding of the world, seeing the wild beast that was, and is not, and shall be at hand.
REV 17:9 Here is the mind; the one having wisdom - the seven heads are seven mountains where the woman sits upon them.
REV 17:10 And there are seven kings - the five fallen, the one is, the other not yet is come; and whenever he should come, he must remain a little.
REV 17:11 And the wild beast which was, and is not, even he is eighth, and is from out of the seven, and goes unto destruction.
REV 17:12 And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings, which not yet received a kingdom; but receive authority as kings one hour with the wild beast.
REV 17:13 These have one opinion, and they give the power and their authority to the wild beast.
REV 17:14 These shall wage war against the lamb, and the lamb will overcome them. For he is Lord of lords and king of kings. And the ones with him are called, and chosen, and trustworthy.
REV 17:15 And he says to me, The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes, and nations, and languages.
REV 17:16 And the ten horns which you saw upon the wild beast, these shall detest the harlot, and they shall cause her being made desolate, and shall make her naked, and shall devour her flesh, and shall incinerate her by fire.
REV 17:17 For God gave to their hearts to do his design, and to do one design, and to give their kingdom to the wild beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.
REV 17:18 And the woman whom you saw is the great city, having kingship over the kings of the earth.
REV 18:1 And after these things I saw another angel descending from the heaven, having great authority; and the earth was enlightened from his glory.
REV 18:2 And he cried out in strength of voice, saying, Is fallen, is fallen, Babylon the great, and is become home of daimons, and a prison of every unclean spirit, and a prison of every unclean and detested bird.
REV 18:3 For from out of the rage of the wine of her harlotry all the nations are given to drink, and the kings of the earth committed harlotry with her, and the merchants of the earth were enriched from out of the power of her indulgence.
REV 18:4 And I heard another voice from out of the heaven, saying, Come forth from out of her, my people, that you should not partake together with her sins; and that you should not receive of her calamities!
REV 18:5 For her sins cleaved as far as the heaven, and God remembered her - the offences of her's.
REV 18:6 Render to her as also she rendered to you, and double up to her double according to her works! In the cup which she mixed, you mix to her double!
REV 18:7 So much as she glorified herself, and lived indulgently, so for that much you give to her torment and mourning! For in her heart she says that, I sit a queen, and I am not a widow, and in no way shall I see mourning.
REV 18:8 On account of this in one day shall come her calamities - death, and mourning, and hunger. And she shall be incinerated by fire; for the Lord God judging her is strong.
REV 18:9 And the kings of the earth shall weep for her and beat their chests over her, the ones committing harlotry with her, and living indulgently, whenever they should see the smoke of her burning fire,
REV 18:10 standing from far off on account of the fear of her torment, saying, Woe, woe to the great city Babylon, the strong city; for in one hour your judgment came.
REV 18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no one buys of their merchandise any longer.
REV 18:12 Merchandise of gold, and of silver, and of precious stone, and of pearl, and of linen, and of purple goods, and of silk, and of scarlet goods, and all wood of thyine, and every item of ivory, and every item of most precious wood, and of brass, and of iron, and of marble,
REV 18:13 and cinnamon, and incenses, and perfumed liquid, and frankincense, and wine, and olive oil, and fine flour, and grain, and cattle, and sheep, and horses, and coaches, and bodies, and souls of men.
REV 18:14 And the autumn fruits of the desire of your soul are departed from you, and all the lustrous things; and the bright things are destroyed from you, and no longer in any way shall you find them.
REV 18:15 The merchants of these things, who were enriched from her, shall stand from far off because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,
REV 18:16 and saying, Woe, woe to the great city, the one wearing fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and being gilded with gold, and precious stone, and pearls.
REV 18:17 For in one hour was made desolate so great a wealth. And every navigator, and all upon the boats sailing, and seamen, and as many as work the sea stood from far off,
REV 18:18 and cried out seeing the smoke of her burning fire, saying, What is likened to the great city?
REV 18:19 And they threw dust upon their heads, and cried out, weeping and mourning, and saying, Woe, woe the great city, in which were enriched all the ones having the ships in the sea from her valuables, for in one hour she was made desolate.
REV 18:20 Be glad over her, O heaven, and holy ones, and apostles, and prophets! for God judged your case against her.
REV 18:21 And one strong angel lifted a stone as a great millstone, and cast it in the sea, saying, Thus with impulse shall Babylon the great city be thrown, and in no way shall be found any more.
REV 18:22 And a sound of harpists, and musicians, and pipers, and trumpeters, in no way shall be heard in you any more; and every craftsman of every craft in no way shall be found in you any more; and the sound of a millstone in no way shall be heard in you any more;
REV 18:23 and the light of a lamp in no way shall shine in you any more; and the voice of the groom and bride in no way shall be heard in you any more. For your merchants were the great men of the earth; for by your sorcery all the nations were misled.
REV 18:24 And in her the blood of prophets and holy ones was found, and of all the ones being slain upon the earth.
REV 19:1 And after these things I heard as a sound of a vast great multitude in the heaven, saying, Alleluia; the deliverance, and the power, and the glory of our God.
REV 19:2 For True and just are his judgments. For he judged the great harlot, who corrupted the earth with her harlotry; and he avenged the blood of his bondmen from out of her hand.
REV 19:3 And a second time they said, Alleluia. And her smoke ascends into the eons of the eons.
REV 19:4 And the twenty-four elders fell, and the four living creatures, and did obeisance to God, to the one sitting upon the throne, saying, Amen; alleluia.
REV 19:5 And a voice from the throne came forth, saying, Praise our God all his bondmen, and the ones fearing him - the small and the great!
REV 19:6 And I heard as a sound of a vast multitude, and as a sound of abundant waters, and as a sound of strong thunders, saying, Alleluia; for the Lord God almighty reigns.
REV 19:7 Let us rejoice and exult, and let us give the glory to him! For the wedding of the lamb is come, and his wife prepared herself.
REV 19:8 And it was given to her that she should wear fine linen bright and clean; for the fine linen, is the right actions of the holy ones.
REV 19:9 And he says to me, Write! Blessed are the ones being called to the supper of the wedding of the lamb. And he says to me, These words of God are true.
REV 19:10 And I fell before his feet to do obeisance to him. And he says to me, See that you do not! I am your fellow-servant, and of your brothers having the testimony of Jesus; to God do obeisance! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of the prophecy.
REV 19:11 And I saw the heaven being opened, and behold a white horse; and the one sitting upon him being called Trustworthy and True, and with righteousness he judges and wages war.
REV 19:12 And his eyes a flame of fire, and upon his head many diadems; having names being written, and a name being written which no one knows except himself;
REV 19:13 and wearing a cloak being dipped in blood, and his name is called, The Word of God.
REV 19:14 And the militaries in the heaven followed him upon white horses, being clothed in clean white fine linen.
REV 19:15 And from out of his mouth goes forth a sharp double-edged broadsword, that with it he should strike the nations. And he shall tend them with a rod of iron. And he treads the wine vat of the wine of the rage of the wrath of God almighty.
REV 19:16 And he has upon the cloak and upon his thigh a name being written, King of kings, and Lord of lords.
REV 19:17 And I saw one angel standing in the sun; and he cried out with a great voice, saying to all the birds flying in mid-heaven, Come, and be gathered together for the great supper of God;
REV 19:18 that you should eat flesh of kings, and flesh of commanders of thousands, and flesh of strong men, and flesh of horses, and of the ones sitting upon them, and flesh of all, both free and bondmen, both small and great.
REV 19:19 And I saw the wild beast, and the kings of the earth, and their militaries being gathered together to make war with the one sitting upon the horse, and with his military.
REV 19:20 And the wild beast was laid hold of, and with this one the false prophet performing the signs before him, in which he misled the ones receiving the imprint of the wild beast, and the ones doing obeisance to his image. The two were thrown living into the lake of fire burning with sulphur.
REV 19:21 And the rest were killed by the broadsword of the one sitting upon the horse, by the one going forth from out of his mouth. And all the birds were filled of their flesh.
REV 20:1 And I saw an angel coming down from out of the heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
REV 20:2 And he seized the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil, and Satan, the one misleading the entire inhabitable world, and bound him a thousand years,
REV 20:3 and cast him into the abyss, and locked, and set a seal upon him, that he should not mislead the nations any more, until the thousand years be fulfilled. And after these things it is necessary to loose him a little time.
REV 20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them - even the souls of the ones hewn with an axe on account of the testimony of Jesus, and on account of the word of God, and whoever did not do obeisance to the wild beast, nor to his image, and did not take the imprint upon their forehead, and upon their hand; and they lived and reigned with the Christ a thousand years.
REV 20:5 And the rest of the dead did not live until the thousand years should be fulfilled. This is the first resurrection.
REV 20:6 Blessed and holy is the one having part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has not authority, but they will be priests of God and of the Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
REV 20:7 And whenever the thousand years should be fulfilled, Satan shall be loosed from out of his prison,
REV 20:8 and shall come forth to mislead the nations, in the four corners of the earth - Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war - which the number is as the sand of the sea.
REV 20:9 And they ascended upon the width of the earth, and encircled the camp of the holy ones, and the city being loved. And fire came down from the heaven from God, and it devoured them.
REV 20:10 And the devil misleading them was cast into the lake of fire and sulphur, where the wild beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night into the eons of the eons.
REV 20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and the one sitting upon it, from whose face the heaven and the earth fled; and a place was not found for them.
REV 20:12 And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne; and scrolls were opened. And another scroll was opened, which is the one of life. And the dead were judged from out of the things being written in the scrolls, according to their works.
REV 20:13 And the sea gave up the ones dead in her; and death and Hades gave up the ones of their dead. And they were judged each according to their works.
REV 20:14 And death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death - the lake of fire.
REV 20:15 And if any should not be found written in the book of life he was cast into the lake of fire.
REV 21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth passed away; and the sea is not any longer.
REV 21:2 And the holy city, new Jerusalem, I saw coming down from God out of the heaven, being prepared as a bride being adorned to her husband.
REV 21:3 And I heard a great voice from out of the heaven saying, Behold, the tent of God is with men, and he shall pitch a tent with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them.
REV 21:4 And he shall wipe away every tear from their eyes; and death will not be any more, nor mourning, nor crying, nor misery - it shall not be any more; for the first things departed.
REV 21:5 And said the one sitting upon the throne, Behold, I make all things new. And he says to me, Write! for these words are true and trustworthy.
REV 21:6 And he said to me, It has taken place - the alpha and the omega, the beginning and end. I will give to the one thirsting from out of the spring of the water of life without charge.
REV 21:7 The one overcoming shall inherit all; and I will be to him God, and he will be to me a son.
REV 21:8 But to the timid ones, and unbelieving ones, and sinful ones, and ones being abhorrent, and murderers, and fornicators, and dealers in potions, and idolaters, and to all the liars, their part is in the lake burning with fire and sulphur, which is the second death.
REV 21:9 And one came from the seven angels, having the seven bowls being full of the seven last calamities, and spoke with me, saying, Come, I will show to you the wife, the bride of the lamb.
REV 21:10 And he carried me away in spirit upon a great and high mountain, and showed to me the great city, holy Jerusalem, coming down from out of the heaven from God,
REV 21:11 having the glory of God. Her luminescence was likened to precious stone, as to jasper stone, sparkling;
REV 21:12 having a wall great and high, and having twelve gatehouses. And upon the gatehouses were twelve angels, and names being inscribed, which is of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel.
REV 21:13 From the east three gatehouses; and from the north three gatehouses; and from the south three gatehouses; and from the west three gatehouses.
REV 21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and upon them twelve names of the twelve apostles of the lamb.
REV 21:15 And the one speaking with me had a golden reed measure, that he should measure the city, and her gatehouses, and her wall.
REV 21:16 And the city lies four-cornered, and her length is as much as the width. And he measured the city by the reed unto twelve thousand stadiums. The length, and the width, and the height of her were equal.
REV 21:17 And he measured her wall a hundred forty four cubits, the measure of a man, which is, of an angel.
REV 21:18 And the edifice of her wall was jasper, And the city was pure gold, likened to pure glass.
REV 21:19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald,
REV 21:20 the fifth sardonyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh hyacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
REV 21:21 And the twelve gatehouses were twelve pearls, while each one of the gatehouses was of one pearl. And the square of the city was pure gold, as transparent glass.
REV 21:22 And I saw not a temple in her; for the Lord God almighty is her temple, and the lamb.
REV 21:23 And the city has not a need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they should shine forth in her; for the glory of God gives her light, and her lamp is the lamb.
REV 21:24 And the nations shall walk by her light. And the kings of the earth shall bring the glory and their honor unto her.
REV 21:25 And her gatehouses in no way should be locked by day; for night shall not be there.
REV 21:26 And they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations unto her.
REV 21:27 And in no way should enter into her anything common, and committing an abomination, and a lie; only the ones being written in the scroll of the life of the lamb.
REV 22:1 And he showed to me a pure river of water of life, bright as crystal, going forth from out of the throne of God and of the lamb.
REV 22:2 In the midst of her square, and of the river, from this side here and from that side there, was a tree of life producing twelve fruits, each by month rendering its fruit; and the leaves of the tree were for treatment of the nations.
REV 22:3 And every great curse shall not be any longer. And the throne of God and of the lamb will be in her; and his bondmen shall serve to him.
REV 22:4 And they shall see his face; and his name is upon their foreheads.
REV 22:5 And night shall not be there; and they have not a need of a lamp, and the light of the sun; for the Lord God enlightens them. And they shall reign into the eons of the eons.
REV 22:6 And he said to me, These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord God of the spirits of the prophets sent his angel to show to his bondmen what must take place quickly.
REV 22:7 Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is the one giving heed to the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
REV 22:8 And I John am the one hearing and seeing these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell to do obeisance before the feet of the angel showing to me these things.
REV 22:9 And he says to me, See that you do not! For I am your fellow-servant, and of your brothers the prophets, and of the ones giving heed to the words of this scroll - to God do obeisance!
REV 22:10 And he says to me, You should not set a seal upon the words of the prophecy of this scroll; for the time is near.
REV 22:11 The one wronging, let him wrong still! And the filthy one, let him be filthy still! And the just one, let him do righteousness still! And the holy one, let him be sanctified still!
REV 22:12 Behold, I come quickly, and my wage is with me, to render to each as his work will be.
REV 22:13 I am the alpha and the omega, the beginning and end, the first and the last.
REV 22:14 Blessed are the ones observing his commandments, that their authority will be unto the tree of life, and by the gatehouses they should enter into the city.
REV 22:15 Outside are the dogs, and the administers of potions, and the fornicators, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and every one being fond of and committing a lie.
REV 22:16 I Jesus sent forth my angel to testify to you these things unto the assemblies. I am the root and the race of David, the bright early morning star.
REV 22:17 And the spirit and the bride say, Come! And the one hearing let say, Come! And the one thirsting, let come! The one wanting, let take water of life without charge!
REV 22:18 I bear witness to every one hearing the words of the prophecy of this scroll. If anyone should add upon these, God will place upon him the calamities being written in this scroll.
REV 22:19 And if anyone should remove from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, may God remove his part from the tree of life, and from the holy city, of the things having been written in this scroll.
REV 22:20 The one testifying these things says, Yes, I come quickly. Amen. Yes, come O Lord Jesus!
REV 22:21 The favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all the holy ones. Amen.
